Color-- -1- -2- -3- -4- -5- -6- -7- -8- -9-
Text Size-- 10-- 11-- 12-- 13-- 14-- 15-- 16-- 17-- 18-- 19-- 20-- 21-- 22-- 23-- 24
TWILIGHT
By
Stephenie Meyer
Contents
PREFACE
1. FIRST SIGHT
2. OPEN BOOK
3. PHENOMENON
4. INVITATIONS
5. BLOOD TYPE
6. SCARY STORIES
7. NIGHTMARE
8. PORT ANGELES
9. THEORY
10. INTERROGATIONS
11. COMPLICATIONS
12. BALANCING
13. CONFESSIONS
14. MIND OVER MATTER
15. THE CULLENS
16. CARLISLE
17. THE GAME
18. THE HUNT
19. GOODBYES
20. IMPATIENCE
21. PHONE CALL
22. HIDE-AND-SEEK
23. THE ANGEL
24. AN IMPASSE
EPILOGUE: AN OCCASIONtwilight
STEPHENIE MEYER
LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY
New York Boston
Text copyright © 2005 by Stephenie Meyer
All rights reserved.
Little, Brown and Company
Time Warner Book Group
1271 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020
Visit our Web site at www.lb-teens.com
First Edition: September 2005
The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious.
Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication DataMeyer, Stephanie, 1973—
Twilight : a novel / by Stephanie Meyer. — 1st ed.
p. cm.
Summary: When seventeen-year-old Bella leaves Phoenix to live with her father in Forks, Washington,
she meets an exquisitely handsome boy at school for whom she feels an overwhelming attraction and who
she comes to realize is not wholly human.
ISBN 0-316-16017-2
[1. Vampires — Fiction. 2. High schools — Fiction. 3. Schools — Fiction.
4. Washington (State) — Fiction.] I. Title.
PZ7.M57188Tw2005
[Fic] —dc22 2004024730
Printed in the United States of America
For my big sister, Emily,
without whose enthusiasm this story might still be unfinished.
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil,
thou shalt not eat of it:
for in the day that thou eatest thereof
thou shalt surely die.
Genesis 2:17
PREFACE
I'd never given much thought to how I would die — though I'd had reason enough in the last few months
— but even if I had, I would not have imagined it like this.I stared without breathing across the long room, into the dark eyes of the hunter, and he looked
pleasantly back at me.
Surely it was a good way to die, in the place of someone else, someone I loved. Noble, even. That ought
to count for something.
I knew that if I'd never gone to Forks, I wouldn't be facing death now. But, terrified as I was, I couldn't
bring myself to regret the decision. When life offers you a dream so far beyond any of your expectations,
it's not reasonable to grieve when it comes to an end.
The hunter smiled in a friendly way as he sauntered forward to kill me.
1. FIRST SIGHT
My mother drove me to the airport with the windows rolled down. It was seventy-five degrees in
Phoenix, the sky a perfect, cloudless blue. I was wearing my favorite shirt — sleeveless, white eyelet
lace; I was wearing it as a farewell gesture. My carry-on item was a parka.
In the Olympic Peninsula of northwest Washington State, a small town named Forks exists under a
near-constant cover of clouds. It rains on this inconsequential town more than any other place in the
United States of America. It was from this town and its gloomy, omnipresent shade that my mother
escaped with me when I was only a few months old. It was in this town that I'd been compelled to spend
a month every summer until I was fourteen. That was the year I finally put my foot down; these past three
summers, my dad, Charlie, vacationed with me in California for two weeks instead.
It was to Forks that I now exiled myself— an action that I took with great horror. I detested Forks.
I loved Phoenix. I loved the sun and the blistering heat. I loved the vigorous, sprawling city.
"Bella," my mom said to me — the last of a thousand times — before I got on the plane. "You don't have
to do this."
My mom looks like me, except with short hair and laugh lines. I felt a spasm of panic as I stared at her
wide, childlike eyes. How could I leave my loving, erratic, harebrained mother to fend for herself? Of
course she had Phil now, so the bills would probably get paid, there would be food in the refrigerator,
gas in her car, and someone to call when she got lost, but still...
"I want to go," I lied. I'd always been a bad liar, but I'd been saying this lie so frequently lately that it
sounded almost convincing now.
"Tell Charlie I said hi."
"I will."
"I'll see you soon," she insisted. "You can come home whenever you want — I'll come right back as soon
as you need me."
But I could see the sacrifice in her eyes behind the promise.
"Don't worry about me," I urged. "It'll be great. I love you, Mom."She hugged me tightly for a minute, and then I got on the plane, and she was gone.
It's a four-hour flight from Phoenix to Seattle, another hour in a small plane up to Port Angeles, and then
an hour drive back down to Forks. Flying doesn't bother me; the hour in the car with Charlie, though, I
was a little worried about.
Charlie had really been fairly nice about the whole thing. He seemed genuinely pleased that I was coming
to live with him for the first time with any degree of permanence. He'd already gotten me registered for
high school and was going to help me get a car.
But it was sure to be awkward with Charlie. Neither of us was what anyone would call verbose, and I
didn't know what there was to say regardless. I knew he was more than a little confused by my decision
— like my mother before me, I hadn't made a secret of my distaste for Forks.
When I landed in Port Angeles, it was raining. I didn't see it as an omen — just unavoidable. I'd already
said my goodbyes to the sun.
Charlie was waiting for me with the cruiser. This I was expecting, too. Charlie is Police Chief Swan to the
good people of Forks. My primary motivation behind buying a car, despite the scarcity of my funds, was
that I refused to be driven around town in a car with red and blue lights on top. Nothing slows down
traffic like a cop.
Charlie gave me an awkward, one-armed hug when I stumbled my way off the plane.
"It's good to see you, Bells," he said, smiling as he automatically caught and steadied me. "You haven't
changed much. How's Renée?"
"Mom's fine. It's good to see you, too, Dad." I wasn't allowed to call him Charlie to his face.
I had only a few bags. Most of my Arizona clothes were too permeable for Washington. My mom and I
had pooled our resources to supplement my winter wardrobe, but it was still scanty. It all fit easily into
the trunk of the cruiser.
"I found a good car for you, really cheap," he announced when we were strapped in.
"What kind of car?" I was suspicious of the way he said "good car for you" as opposed to just "good
car."
"Well, it's a truck actually, a Chevy."
"Where did you find it?"
"Do you remember Billy Black down at La Push?" La Push is the tiny Indian reservation on the coast.
"No."
"He used to go fishing with us during the summer," Charlie prompted.
That would explain why I didn't remember him. I do a good job of blocking painful, unnecessary things
from my memory.
"He's in a wheelchair now," Charlie continued when I didn't respond, "so he can't drive anymore, and he
offered to sell me his truck cheap."
"What year is it?" I could see from his change of expression that this was the question he was hoping Iwouldn't ask.
"Well, Billy's done a lot of work on the engine — it's only a few years old, really."
I hoped he didn't think so little of me as to believe I would give up that easily. "When did he buy it?"
"He bought it in 1984, I think."
"Did he buy it new?"
"Well, no. I think it was new in the early sixties — or late fifties at the earliest," he admitted sheepishly.
"Ch — Dad, I don't really know anything about cars. I wouldn't be able to fix it if anything went wrong,
and I couldn't afford a mechanic..."
"Really, Bella, the thing runs great. They don't build them like that anymore."
The thing, I thought to myself... it had possibilities — as a nickname, at the very least.
"How cheap is cheap?" After all, that was the part I couldn't compromise on.
"Well, honey, I kind of already bought it for you. As a homecoming gift." Charlie peeked sideways at me
with a hopeful expression.
Wow. Free.
"You didn't need to do that, Dad. I was going to buy myself a car."
"I don't mind. I want you to be happy here." He was looking ahead at the road when he said this. Charlie
wasn't comfortable with expressing his emotions out loud. I inherited that from him. So I was looking
straight ahead as I responded.
"That's really nice, Dad. Thanks. I really appreciate it." No need to add that my being happy in Forks is
an impossibility. He didn't need to suffer along with me. And I never looked a free truck in the mouth —
or engine.
"Well, now, you're welcome," he mumbled, embarrassed by my thanks.
We exchanged a few more comments on the weather, which was wet, and that was pretty much it for
Conversation. We stared out the windows in silence.
It was beautiful, of course; I couldn't deny that. Everything was green: the trees, their trunks covered with
moss, their branches hanging with a canopy of it, the ground covered with ferns. Even the air filtered
down greenly through the leaves.
It was too green — an alien planet.
Eventually we made it to Charlie's. He still lived in the small, two-bedroom house that he'd bought with
my mother in the early days of their marriage. Those were the only kind of days their marriage had — the
early ones. There, parked on the street in front of the house that never changed, was my new — well,
new to me — truck. It was a faded red color, with big, rounded fenders and a bulbous cab. To my
intense surprise, I loved it. I didn't know if it would run, but I could see myself in it. Plus, it was one of
those solid iron affairs that never gets damaged — the kind you see at the scene of an accident, paint
unscratched, surrounded by the pieces of the foreign car it had destroyed."Wow, Dad, I love it! Thanks!" Now my horrific day tomorrow would be just that much less dreadful. I
wouldn't be faced with the choice of either walking two miles in the rain to school or accepting a ride in
the Chief's cruiser.
"I'm glad you like it," Charlie said gruffly, embarrassed again.
It took only one trip to get all my stuff upstairs. I got the west bedroom that faced out over the front yard.
The room was familiar; it had been belonged to me since I was born. The wooden floor, the light blue
walls, the peaked ceiling, the yellowed lace curtains around the window — these were all a part of my
childhood. The only changes Charlie had ever made were switching the crib for a bed and adding a desk
as I grew. The desk now held a secondhand computer, with the phone line for the modem stapled along
the floor to the nearest phone jack. This was a stipulation from my mother, so that we could stay in touch
easily. The rocking chair from my baby days was still in the corner.
There was only one small bathroom at the top of the stairs, which I would have to share with Charlie. I
was trying not to dwell too much on that fact.
One of the best things about Charlie is he doesn't hover. He left me alone to unpack and get settled, a
feat that would have been altogether impossible for my mother. It was nice to be alone, not to have to
smile and look pleased; a relief to stare dejectedly out the window at the sheeting rain and let just a few
tears escape. I wasn't in the mood to go on a real crying jag. I would save that for bedtime, when I
would have to think about the coming morning.
Forks High School had a frightening total of only three hundred and fifty-seven — now fifty-eight —
students; there were more than seven hundred people in my junior class alone back home. All of the kids
here had grown up together — their grandparents had been toddlers together.
I would be the new girl from the big city, a curiosity, a freak.
Maybe, if I looked like a girl from Phoenix should, I could work this to my advantage. But physically, I'd
never fit in anywhere. I should be tan, sporty, blond — a volleyball player, or a cheerleader, perhaps —
all the things that go with living in the valley of the sun.
Instead, I was ivory-skinned, without even the excuse of blue eyes or red hair, despite the constant
sunshine. I had always been slender, but soft somehow, obviously not an athlete; I didn't have the
necessary hand-eye coordination to play sports without humiliating myself — and harming both myself
and anyone else who stood too close.
When I finished putting my clothes in the old pine dresser, I took my bag of bathroom necessities and
went to the communal bathroom to clean myself up after the day of travel. I looked at my face in the
mirror as I brushed through my tangled, damp hair. Maybe it was the light, but already I looked sallower,
unhealthy. My skin could be pretty — it was very clear, almost translucent-looking — but it all depended
on color. I had no color here.
Facing my pallid reflection in the mirror, I was forced to admit that I was lying to myself. It wasn't just
physically that I'd never fit in. And if I couldn't find a niche in a school with three thousand people, what
were my chances here?
I didn't relate well to people my age. Maybe the truth was that I didn't relate well to people, period. Even
my mother, who I was closer to than anyone else on the planet, was never in harmony with me, never on
exactly the same page. Sometimes I wondered if I was seeing the same things through my eyes that the
rest of the world was seeing through theirs. Maybe there was a glitch in my brain. But the cause didn't
matter. All that mattered was the effect. And tomorrow would be just the beginning.I didn't sleep well that night, even after I was done crying. The constant whooshing of the rain and wind
across the roof wouldn't fade into the background. I pulled the faded old quilt over my head, and later
added the pillow, too. But I couldn't fall asleep until after midnight, when the rain finally settled into a
quieter drizzle.
Thick fog was all I could see out my window in the morning, and I could feel the claustrophobia creeping
up on me. You could never see the sky here; it was like a cage.
Breakfast with Charlie was a quiet event. He wished me good luck at school. I thanked him, knowing his
hope was wasted. Good luck tended to avoid me. Charlie left first, off to the police station that was his
wife and family. After he left, I sat at the old square oak table in one of the three unmatching chairs and
examined his small kitchen, with its dark paneled walls, bright yellow cabinets, and white linoleum floor.
Nothing was changed. My mother had painted the cabinets eighteen years ago in an attempt to bring
some sunshine into the house. Over the small fireplace in the adjoining handkerchief-sized family room
was a row of pictures. First a wedding picture of Charlie and my mom in Las Vegas, then one of the
three of us in the hospital after I was born, taken by a helpful nurse, followed by the procession of my
school pictures up to last year's. Those were embarrassing to look at — I would have to see what I
could do to get Charlie to put them somewhere else, at least while I was living here.
It was impossible, being in this house, not to realize that Charlie had never gotten over my mom. It made
me uncomfortable.
I didn't want to be too early to school, but I couldn't stay in the house anymore. I donned my jacket —
which had the feel of a biohazard suit — and headed out into the rain.
It was just drizzling still, not enough to soak me through immediately as I reached for the house key that
was always hidden under the eaves by the door, and locked up. The sloshing of my new waterproof
boots was unnerving. I missed the normal crunch of gravel as I walked. I couldn't pause and admire my
truck again as I wanted; I was in a hurry to get out of the misty wet that swirled around my head and
clung to my hair under my hood.
Inside the truck, it was nice and dry. Either Billy or Charlie had obviously cleaned it up, but the tan
upholstered seats still smelled faintly of tobacco, gasoline, and peppermint. The engine started quickly, to
my relief, but loudly, roaring to life and then idling at top volume. Well, a truck this old was bound to
have a flaw. The antique radio worked, a plus that I hadn't expected.
Finding the school wasn't difficult, though I'd never been there before. The school was, like most other
things, just off the highway. It was not obvious that it was a school; only the sign, which declared it to be
the Forks High School, made me stop. It looked like a collection of matching houses, built with
maroon-colored bricks. There were so many trees and shrubs I couldn't see its size at first. Where was
the feel of the institution? I wondered nostalgically. Where were the chain-link fences, the metal
detectors?
I parked in front of the first building, which had a small sign over the door reading front office. No one
else was parked there, so I was sure it was off limits, but I decided I would get directions inside instead
of circling around in the rain like an idiot. I stepped unwillingly out of the toasty truck cab and walked
down a little stone path lined with dark hedges. I took a deep breath before opening the door.
Inside, it was brightly lit, and warmer than I'd hoped. The office was small; a little waiting area with
padded folding chairs, orange-flecked commercial carpet, notices and awards cluttering the walls, a big
clock ticking loudly. Plants grew everywhere in large plastic pots, as if there wasn't enough greeneryoutside. The room was cut in half by a long counter, cluttered with wire baskets full of papers and
brightly colored flyers taped to its front. There were three desks behind the counter, one of which was
manned by a large, red-haired woman wearing glasses. She was wearing a purple t-shirt, which
immediately made me feel overdressed.
The red-haired woman looked up. "Can I help you?"
"I'm Isabella Swan," I informed her, and saw the immediate awareness light her eyes. I was expected, a
topic of gossip no doubt. Daughter of the Chief's flighty ex-wife, come home at last.
"Of course," she said. She dug through a precariously stacked pile of documents on her desk till she
found the ones she was looking for. "I have your schedule right here, and a map of the school." She
brought several sheets to the counter to show roe.
She went through my classes for me, highlighting the best route to each on the map, and gave me a slip to
have each teacher sign, which I was to bring back at the end of the day. She smiled at me and hoped,
like Charlie, that I would like it here in Forks. I smiled back as convincingly as I could.
When I went back out to my truck, other students were starting to arrive. I drove around the school,
following the line of traffic. I was glad to see that most of the cars were older like mine, nothing flashy. At
home I'd lived in one of the few lower-income neighborhoods that were included in the Paradise Valley
District. It was a common thing to see a new Mercedes or Porsche in the student lot. The nicest car here
was a shiny Volvo, and it stood out. Still, I cut the engine as soon as I was in a spot, so that the
thunderous volume wouldn't draw attention to me.
I looked at the map in the truck, trying to memorize it now; hopefully I wouldn't have to walk around with
it stuck in front of my nose all day. I stuffed everything in my bag, slung the strap over my shoulder, and
sucked in a huge breath. I can do this, I lied to myself feebly. No one was going to bite me. I finally
exhaled and stepped out of the truck.
I kept my face pulled back into my hood as I walked to the sidewalk, crowded with teenagers. My plain
black jacket didn't stand out, I noticed with relief.
Once I got around the cafeteria, building three was easy to spot. A large black "3" was painted on a
white square on the east corner. I felt my breathing gradually creeping toward hyperventilation as I
approached the door. I tried holding my breath as I followed two unisex raincoats through the door.
The classroom was small. The people in front of me stopped just inside the door to hang up their coats
on a long row of hooks. I copied them. They were two girls, one a porcelain-colored blonde, the other
also pale, with light brown hair. At least my skin wouldn't be a standout here.
I took the slip up to the teacher, a tall, balding man whose desk had a nameplate identifying him as Mr.
Mason. He gawked at me when he saw my name — not an encouraging response — and of course I
flushed tomato red. But at least he sent me to an empty desk at the back without introducing me to the
class. It was harder for my new classmates to stare at me in the back, but somehow, they managed. I
kept my eyes down on the reading list the teacher had given me. It was fairly basic: Bronte, Shakespeare,
Chaucer, Faulkner. I'd already read everything. That was comforting... and boring. I wondered if my
mom would send me my folder of old essays, or if she would think that was cheating. I went through
different arguments with her in my head while the teacher droned on.
When the bell rang, a nasal buzzing sound, a gangly boy with skin problems and hair black as an oil slick
leaned across the aisle to talk to me."You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" He looked like the overly helpful, chess club type.
"Bella," I corrected. Everyone within a three-seat radius turned to look at me.
"Where's your next class?" he asked.
I had to check in my bag. "Um, Government, with Jefferson, in building six."
There was nowhere to look without meeting curious eyes.
"I'm headed toward building four, I could show you the way..." Definitely over-helpful. "I'm Eric," he
added.
I smiled tentatively. "Thanks."
We got our jackets and headed out into the rain, which had picked up. I could have sworn several
people behind us were walking close enough to eavesdrop. I hoped I wasn't getting paranoid.
"So, this is a lot different than Phoenix, huh?" he asked.
"Very."
"It doesn't rain much there, does it?"
"Three or four times a year."
"Wow, what must that be like?" he wondered.
"Sunny," I told him.
"You don't look very tan."
"My mother is part albino."
He studied my face apprehensively, and I sighed. It looked like clouds and a sense of humor didn't mix.
A few months of this and I'd forget how to use sarcasm.
We walked back around the cafeteria, to the south buildings by the gym. Eric walked me right to the
door, though it was clearly marked.
"Well, good luck," he said as I touched the handle. "Maybe we'll have some other classes together." He
sounded hopeful.
I smiled at him vaguely and went inside.
The rest of the morning passed in about the same fashion. My Trigonometry teacher, Mr. Varner, who I
would have hated anyway just because of the subject he taught, was the only one who made me stand in
front of the class and introduce myself. I stammered, blushed, and tripped over my own boots on the
way to my seat.
After two classes, I started to recognize several of the faces in each class. There was always someone
braver than the others who would introduce themselves and ask me questions about how I was liking
Forks. I tried to be diplomatic, but mostly I just lied a lot. At least I never needed the map.
One girl sat next to me in both Trig and Spanish, and she walked with me to the cafeteria for lunch. She
was tiny, several inches shorter than my five feet four inches, but her wildly curly dark hair made up a lotof the difference between our heights. I couldn't remember her name, so I smiled and nodded as she
prattled about teachers and classes. I didn't try to keep up.
We sat at the end of a full table with several of her friends, who she introduced to me. I forgot all their
names as soon as she spoke them. They seemed impressed by her bravery in speaking to me. The boy
from English, Eric, waved at me from across the room.
It was there, sitting in the lunchroom, trying to make conversation with seven curious strangers, that I first
saw them.
They were sitting in the corner of the cafeteria, as far away from where I sat as possible in the long room.
There were five of them. They weren't talking, and they weren't eating, though they each had a tray of
untouched food in front of them. They weren't gawking at me, unlike most of the other students, so it was
safe to stare at them without fear of meeting an excessively interested pair of eyes. But it was none of
these things that caught, and held, my attention.
They didn't look anything alike. Of the three boys, one was big — muscled like a serious weight lifter,
with dark, curly hair. Another was taller, leaner, but still muscular, and honey blond. The last was lanky,
less bulky, with untidy, bronze-colored hair. He was more boyish than the others, who looked like they
could be in college, or even teachers here rather than students.
The girls were opposites. The tall one was statuesque. She had a beautiful figure, the kind you saw on the
cover of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, the kind that made every girl around her take a hit on her
self-esteem just by being in the same room. Her hair was golden, gently waving to the middle of her
back. The short girl was pixielike, thin in the extreme, with small features. Her hair was a deep black,
cropped short and pointing in every direction.
And yet, they were all exactly alike. Every one of them was chalky pale, the palest of all the students
living in this sunless town. Paler than me, the albino. They all had very dark eyes despite the range in hair
tones. They also had dark shadows under those eyes — purplish, bruiselike shadows. As if they were all
suffering from a sleepless night, or almost done recovering from a broken nose. Though their noses, all
their features, were straight, perfect, angular.
But all this is not why I couldn't look away.
I stared because their faces, so different, so similar, were all devastatingly, inhumanly beautiful. They
were faces you never expected to see except perhaps on the airbrushed pages of a fashion magazine. Or
painted by an old master as the face of an angel. It was hard to decide who was the most beautiful —
maybe the perfect blond girl, or the bronze-haired boy.
They were all looking away — away from each other, away from the other students, away from anything
in particular as far as I could tell. As I watched, the small girl rose with her tray — unopened soda,
unbitten apple — and walked away with a quick, graceful lope that belonged on a runway. I watched,
amazed at her lithe dancer's step, till she dumped her tray and glided through the back door, faster than I
would have thought possible. My eyes darted back to the others, who sat unchanging.
"Who are they?" I asked the girl from my Spanish class, whose name I'd forgotten.
As she looked up to see who I meant — though already knowing, probably, from my tone — suddenly
he looked at her, the thinner one, the boyish one, the youngest, perhaps. He looked at my neighbor for
just a fraction of a second, and then his dark eyes flickered to mine.
He looked away quickly, more quickly than I could, though in a flush of embarrassment I dropped myeyes at once. In that brief flash of a glance, his face held nothing of interest — it was as if she had called
his name, and he'd looked up in involuntary response, already having decided not to answer.
My neighbor giggled in embarrassment, looking at the table like I did.
"That's Edward and Emmett Cullen, and Rosalie and Jasper Hale. The one who left was Alice Cullen;
they all live together with Dr. Cullen and his wife." She said this under her breath.
I glanced sideways at the beautiful boy, who was looking at his tray now, picking a bagel to pieces with
long, pale fingers. His mouth was moving very quickly, his perfect lips barely opening. The other three still
looked away, and yet I felt he was speaking quietly to them.
Strange, unpopular names, I thought. The kinds of names grandparents had. But maybe that was in vogue
here — small town names? I finally remembered that my neighbor was called Jessica, a perfectly
common name. There were two girls named Jessica in my History class back home.
"They are... very nice-looking." I struggled with the conspicuous understatement.
"Yes!" Jessica agreed with another giggle. "They're all together though — Emmett and Rosalie, and
Jasper and Alice, I mean. And they live together." Her voice held all the shock and condemnation of the
small town, I thought critically. But, if I was being honest, I had to admit that even in Phoenix, it would
cause gossip.
"Which ones are the Cullens?" I asked. "They don't look related..."
"Oh, they're not. Dr. Cullen is really young, in his twenties or early thirties. They're all adopted. The
Hales are brother and sister, twins — the blondes — and they're foster children."
"They look a little old for foster children."
"They are now, Jasper and Rosalie are both eighteen, but they've been with Mrs. Cullen since they were
eight. She's their aunt or something like that."
"That's really kind of nice — for them to take care of all those kids like that, when they're so young and
everything."
"I guess so," Jessica admitted reluctantly, and I got the impression that she didn't like the doctor and his
wife for some reason. With the glances she was throwing at their adopted children, I would presume the
reason was jealousy. "I think that Mrs. Cullen can't have any kids, though," she added, as if that lessened
their kindness.
Throughout all this conversation, my eyes flickered again and again to the table where the strange family
sat. They continued to look at the walls and not eat.
"Have they always lived in Forks?" I asked. Surely I would have noticed them on one of my summers
here.
"No," she said in a voice that implied it should be obvious, even to a new arrival like me. "They just
moved down two years ago from somewhere in Alaska."
I felt a surge of pity, and relief. Pity because, as beautiful as they were, they were outsiders, clearly not
accepted. Relief that I wasn't the only newcomer here, and certainly not the most interesting by any
standard.As I examined them, the youngest, one of the Cullens, looked up and met my gaze, this time with evident
curiosity in his expression. As I looked swiftly away, it seemed to me that his glance held some kind of
unmet expectation.
"Which one is the boy with the reddish brown hair?" I asked. I peeked at him from the corner of my eye,
and he was still staring at me, but not gawking like the other students had today — he had a slightly
frustrated expression. I looked down again.
"That's Edward. He's gorgeous, of course, but don't waste your time. He doesn't date. Apparently none
of the girls here are good-looking enough for him." She sniffed, a clear case of sour grapes. I wondered
when he'd turned her down.
I bit my lip to hide my smile. Then I glanced at him again. His face was turned away, but I thought his
cheek appeared lifted, as if he were smiling, too.
After a few more minutes, the four of them left the table together. They all were noticeably graceful —
even the big, brawny one. It was unsettling to watch. The one named Edward didn't look at me again.
I sat at the table with Jessica and her friends longer than I would have if I'd been sitting alone. I was
anxious not to be late for class on my first day. One of my new acquaintances, who considerately
reminded me that her name was Angela, had Biology II with me the next hour. We walked to class
together in silence. She was shy, too.
When we entered the classroom, Angela went to sit at a black-topped lab table exactly like the ones I
was used to. She already had a neighbor. In fact, all the tables were filled but one. Next to the center
aisle, I recognized Edward Cullen by his unusual hair, sitting next to that single open seat.
As I walked down the aisle to introduce myself to the teacher and get my slip signed, I was watching him
surreptitiously. Just as I passed, he suddenly went rigid in his seat. He stared at me again, meeting my
eyes with the strangest expression on his face — it was hostile, furious. I looked away quickly, shocked,
going red again. I stumbled over a book in the walkway and had to catch myself on the edge of a table.
The girl sitting there giggled.
I'd noticed that his eyes were black — coal black.
Mr. Banner signed my slip and handed me a book with no nonsense about introductions. I could tell we
were going to get along. Of course, he had no choice but to send me to the one open seat in the middle
of the room. I kept my eyes down as I went to sit by him, bewildered by the antagonistic stare he'd given
me.
I didn't look up as I set my book on the table and took my seat, but I saw his posture change from the
corner of my eye. He was leaning away from me, sitting on the extreme edge of his chair and averting his
face like he smelled something bad. Inconspicuously, I sniffed my hair. It smelled like strawberries, the
scent of my favorite shampoo. It seemed an innocent enough odor. I let my hair fall over my right
shoulder, making a dark curtain between us, and tried to pay attention to the teacher.
Unfortunately the lecture was on cellular anatomy, something I'd already studied. I took notes carefully
anyway, always looking down.
I couldn't stop myself from peeking occasionally through the screen of my hair at the strange boy next to
me. During the whole class, he never relaxed his stiff position on the edge of his chair, sitting as far from
me as possible. I could see his hand on his left leg was clenched into a fist, tendons standing out under his
pale skin. This, too, he never relaxed. He had the long sleeves of his white shirt pushed up to his elbows,and his forearm was surprisingly hard and muscular beneath his light skin. He wasn't nearly as slight as
he'd looked next to his burly brother.
The class seemed to drag on longer than the others. Was it because the day was finally coming to a
close, or because I was waiting for his tight fist to loosen? It never did; he continued to sit so still it
looked like he wasn't breathing. What was wrong with him? Was this his normal behavior? I questioned
my judgment on Jessica's bitterness at lunch today. Maybe she was not as resentful as I'd thought.
It couldn't have anything to do with me. He didn't know me from Eve.
I peeked up at him one more time, and regretted it. He was glaring down at me again, his black eyes full
of revulsion. As I flinched away from him, shrinking against my chair, the phrase if looks could kill
suddenly ran through my mind.
At that moment, the bell rang loudly, making me jump, and Edward Cullen was out of his seat. Fluidly he
rose — he was much taller than I'd thought — his back to me, and he was out the door before anyone
else was out of their seat.
I sat frozen in my seat, staring blankly after him. He was so mean. It wasn't fair. I began gathering up my
things slowly, trying to block the anger that filled me, for fear my eyes would tear up. For some reason,
my temper was hardwired to my tear ducts. I usually cried when I was angry, a humiliating tendency.
"Aren't you Isabella Swan?" a male voice asked.
I looked up to see a cute, baby-faced boy, his pale blond hair carefully gelled into orderly spikes, smiling
at me in a friendly way. He obviously didn't think I smelled bad.
"Bella," I corrected him, with a smile.
"I'm Mike."
"Hi, Mike."
"Do you need any help finding your next class?"
"I'm headed to the gym, actually. I think I can find it."
"That's my next class, too." He seemed thrilled, though it wasn't that big of a coincidence in a school this
small.
We walked to class together; he was a chatterer — he supplied most of the conversation, which made it
easy for me. He'd lived in California till he was ten, so he knew how I felt about the sun. It turned out he
was in my English class also. He was the nicest person I'd met today.
But as we were entering the gym, he asked, "So, did you stab Edward Cullen with a pencil or what? I've
never seen him act like that."
I cringed. So I wasn't the only one who had noticed. And, apparently, that wasn't Edward Cullen's usual
behavior. I decided to play dumb.
"Was that the boy I sat next to in Biology?" I asked artlessly.
"Yes," he said. "He looked like he was in pain or something."
"I don't know," I responded. "I never spoke to him.""He's a weird guy." Mike lingered by me instead of heading to the dressing room. "If I were lucky enough
to sit by you, I would have talked to you."
I smiled at him before walking through the girls' locker room door. He was friendly and clearly admiring.
But it wasn't enough to ease my irritation.
The Gym teacher, Coach Clapp, found me a uniform but didn't make me dress down for today's class.
At home, only two years of RE. were required. Here, P.E. was mandatory all four years. Forks was
literally my personal hell on Earth.
I watched four volleyball games running simultaneously. Remembering how many injuries I had sustained
— and inflicted — playing volleyball, I felt faintly nauseated.
The final bell rang at last. I walked slowly to the office to return my paperwork. The rain had drifted
away, but the wind was strong, and colder. I wrapped my arms around myself.
When I walked into the warm office, I almost turned around and walked back out.
Edward Cullen stood at the desk in front of me. I recognized again that tousled bronze hair. He didn't
appear to notice the sound of my entrance. I stood pressed against the back wall, waiting for the
receptionist to be free.
He was arguing with her in a low, attractive voice. I quickly picked up the gist of the argument. He was
trying to trade from sixth-hour Biology to another time — any other time.
I just couldn't believe that this was about me. It had to be something else, something that happened
before I entered the Biology room. The look on his face must have been about another aggravation
entirely. It was impossible that this stranger could take such a sudden, intense dislike to me.
The door opened again, and the cold wind suddenly gusted through the room, rustling the papers on the
desk, swirling my hair around my face. The girl who came in merely stepped to the desk, placed a note in
the wire basket, and walked out again. But Edward Cullen's back stiffened, and he turned slowly to glare
at me — his face was absurdly handsome — with piercing, hate-filled eyes. For an instant, I felt a thrill of
genuine fear, raising the hair on my arms. The look only lasted a second, but it chilled me more than the
freezing wind. He turned back to the receptionist.
"Never mind, then," he said hastily in a voice like velvet. "I can see that it's impossible. Thank you so
much for your help." And he turned on his heel without another look at me, and disappeared out the
door.
I went meekly to the desk, my face white for once instead of red, and handed her the signed slip.
"How did your first day go, dear?" the receptionist asked maternally.
"Fine," I lied, my voice weak. She didn't look convinced.
When I got to the truck, it was almost the last car in the lot. It seemed like a haven, already the closest
thing to home I had in this damp green hole. I sat inside for a while, just staring out the windshield
blankly. But soon I was cold enough to need the heater, so I turned the key and the engine roared to life.
I headed back to Charlie's house, fighting tears the whole way there.
2. OPEN BOOKThe next day was better... and worse.
It was better because it wasn't raining yet, though the clouds were dense and opaque. It was easier
because I knew what to expect of my day. Mike came to sit by me in English, and walked me to my next
class, with Chess Club Eric glaring at him all the while; that was nattering. People didn't look at me quite
as much as they had yesterday. I sat with a big group at lunch that included Mike, Eric, Jessica, and
several other people whose names and faces I now remembered. I began to feel like I was treading
water, instead of drowning in it.
It was worse because I was tired; I still couldn't sleep with the wind echoing around the house. It was
worse because Mr. Varner called on me in Trig when my hand wasn't raised and I had the wrong
answer. It was miserable because I had to play volleyball, and the one time I didn't cringe out of the way
of the ball, I hit my teammate in the head with it. And it was worse because Edward Cullen wasn't in
school at all.
All morning I was dreading lunch, fearing his bizarre glares. Part of me wanted to confront him and
demand to know what his problem was. While I was lying sleepless in my bed, I even imagined what I
would say. But I knew myself too well to think I would really have the guts to do it. I made the Cowardly
Lion look like the terminator.
But when I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica — trying to keep my eyes from sweeping the place for
him, and failing entirely — I saw that his four siblings of sorts were sitting together at the same table, and
he was not with them.
Mike intercepted us and steered us to his table. Jessica seemed elated by the attention, and her friends
quickly joined us. But as I tried to listen to their easy chatter, I was terribly uncomfortable, waiting
nervously for the moment he would arrive. I hoped that he would simply ignore me when he came, and
prove my suspicions false.
He didn't come, and as time passed I grew more and more tense.
I walked to Biology with more confidence when, by the end of lunch, he still hadn't showed. Mike, who
was taking on the qualities of a golden retriever, walked faithfully by my side to class. I held my breath at
the door, but Edward Cullen wasn't there, either. I exhaled and went to my seat. Mike followed, talking
about an upcoming trip to the beach. He lingered by my desk till the bell rang. Then he smiled at me
wistfully and went to sit by a girl with braces and a bad perm. It looked like I was going to have to do
something about Mike, and it wouldn't be easy. In a town like this, where everyone lived on top of
everyone else, diplomacy was essential. I had never been enormously tactful; I had no practice dealing
with overly friendly boys.
I was relieved that I had the desk to myself, that Edward was absent. I told myself that repeatedly. But I
couldn't get rid of the nagging suspicion that I was the reason he wasn't there. It was ridiculous, and
egotistical, to think that I could affect anyone that strongly. It was impossible. And yet I couldn't stop
worrying that it was true.
When the school day was finally done, and the blush was fading out of my cheeks from the volleyball
incident, I changed quickly back into my jeans and navy blue sweater. I hurried from the girls' locker
room, pleased to find that I had successfully evaded my retriever friend for the moment. I walked swiftly
out to the parking lot. It was crowded now with fleeing students. I got in my truck and dug through my
bag to make sure I had what I needed.
Last night I'd discovered that Charlie couldn't cook much besides fried eggs and bacon. So I requestedthat I be assigned kitchen detail for the duration of my stay. He was willing enough to hand over the keys
to the banquet hall. I also found out that he had no food in the house. So I had my shopping list and the
cash from the jar in the cupboard labeled FOOD MONEY, and I was on my way to the Thriftway.
I gunned my deafening engine to life, ignoring the heads that turned in my direction, and backed carefully
into a place in the line of cars that were waiting to exit the parking lot. As I waited, trying to pretend that
the earsplitting rumble was coming from someone else's car, I saw the two Cullens and the Hale twins
getting into their car. It was the shiny new Volvo. Of course. I hadn't noticed their clothes before — I'd
been too mesmerized by their faces. Now that I looked, it was obvious that they were all dressed
exceptionally well; simply, but in clothes that subtly hinted at designer origins. With their remarkable good
looks, the style with which they carried themselves, they could have worn dishrags and pulled it off. It
seemed excessive for them to have both looks and money. But as far as I could tell, life worked that way
most of the time. It didn't look as if it bought them any acceptance here.
No, I didn't fully believe that. The isolation must be their desire; I couldn't imagine any door that wouldn't
be opened by that degree of beauty.
They looked at my noisy truck as I passed them, just like everyone else. I kept my eyes straight forward
and was relieved when I finally was free of the school grounds.
The Thriftway was not far from the school, just a few streets south, off the highway. It was nice to be
inside the supermarket; it felt normal. I did the shopping at home, and I fell into the pattern of the familiar
task gladly. The store was big enough inside that I couldn't hear the tapping of the rain on the roof to
remind me where I was.
When I got home, I unloaded all the groceries, stuffing them in wherever I could find an open space. I
hoped Charlie wouldn't mind. I wrapped potatoes in foil and stuck them in the oven to bake, covered a
steak in marinade and balanced it on top of a carton of eggs in the fridge.
When I was finished with that, I took my book bag upstairs. Before starting my homework, I changed
into a pair of dry sweats, pulled my damp hair up into a pony-tail, and checked my e-mail for the first
time. I had three messages.
"Bella," my mom wrote...
Write me as soon as you get in. Tell me how your flight was. Is it raining? I miss you already.
I'm almost finished packing for Florida, but I can't find my pink blouse. Do you know where I
put it? Phil says hi. Mom.
I sighed and went to the next. It was sent eight hours after the first.
"Bella," she wrote...
Why haven't you e-mailed me yet? What are you waiting for? Mom.
The last was from this morning.Isabella,
If I haven't heard from you by 5:30 p.m. today I'm calling Charlie.
I checked the clock. I still had an hour, but my mom was well known for jumping the gun.
Mom,
Calm down. I'm writing right now. Don't do anything rash.
Bella.
I sent that, and began again.
Mom,
Everything is great. Of course it's raining. I was waiting for something to write about. School
isn't bad, just a little repetitive. I met some nice kids who sit by me at lunch.
Your blouse is at the dry cleaners - you were supposed to pick it up Friday.
Charlie bought me a truck, can you believe it? I love it. It's old, but really sturdy, which is
good, you know, for me.
I miss you, too. I'll write again soon, but I'm not going to check my e-mail every five minutes.
Relax, breathe. I love you.
Bella.
I had decided to read Wuthering Heights — the novel we were currently studying in English — yet
again for the fun of it, and that's what I was doing when Charlie came home. I'd lost track of the time,
and I hurried downstairs to take the potatoes out and put the steak in to broil.
"Bella?" my father called out when he heard me on the stairs.
Who else? I thought to myself.
"Hey, Dad, welcome home."
"Thanks." He hung up his gun belt and stepped out of his boots as I bustled about the kitchen. As far as I
was aware, he'd never shot the gun on the job. But he kept it ready. When I came here as a child, he
would always remove the bullets as soon as he walked in the door. I guess he considered me old enough
now not to shoot myself by accident, and not depressed enough to shoot myself on purpose.
"What's for dinner?" he asked warily. My mother was an imaginative cook, and her experiments weren'talways edible. I was surprised, and sad, that he seemed to remember that far back.
"Steak and potatoes," I answered, and he looked relieved.
He seemed to feel awkward standing in the kitchen doing nothing; he lumbered into the living room to
watch TV while I worked. We were both more comfortable that way. I made a salad while the steaks
cooked, and set the table.
I called him in when dinner was ready, and he sniffed appreciatively as he walked into the room.
"Smells good, Bell."
"Thanks."
We ate in silence for a few minutes. It wasn't uncomfortable. Neither of us was bothered by the quiet. In
some ways, we were well suited for living together.
"So, how did you like school? Have you made any friends?" he asked as he was taking seconds.
"Well, I have a few classes with a girl named Jessica. I sit with her friends at lunch. And there's this boy,
Mike, who's very friendly. Everybody seems pretty nice." With one outstanding exception.
"That must be Mike Newton. Nice kid — nice family. His dad owns the sporting goods store just outside
of town. He makes a good living off all the backpackers who come through here."
"Do you know the Cullen family?" I asked hesitantly.
"Dr. Cullen's family? Sure. Dr. Cullen's a great man."
"They... the kids... are a little different. They don't seem to fit in very well at school."
Charlie surprised me by looking angry.
"People in this town," he muttered. "Dr. Cullen is a brilliant surgeon who could probably work in any
hospital in the world, make ten times the salary he gets here," he continued, getting louder. "We're lucky
to have him — lucky that his wife wanted to live in a small town. He's an asset to the community, and all
of those kids are well behaved and polite. I had my doubts, when they first moved in, with all those
adopted teenagers. I thought we might have some problems with them. But they're all very mature — I
haven't had one speck of trouble from any of them. That's more than I can say for the children of some
folks who have lived in this town for generations. And they stick together the way a family should —
camping trips every other weekend... Just because they're newcomers, people have to talk."
It was the longest speech I'd ever heard Charlie make. He must feel strongly about whatever people
were saying.
I backpedaled. "They seemed nice enough to me. I just noticed they kept to themselves. They're all very
attractive," I added, trying to be more complimentary.
"You should see the doctor," Charlie said, laughing. "It's a good thing he's happily married. A lot of the
nurses at the hospital have a hard time concentrating on their work with him around."
We lapsed back into silence as we finished eating. He cleared the table while I started on the dishes. He
went back to the TV, and after I finished washing the dishes by hand — no dishwasher — I went
upstairs unwillingly to work on my math homework. I could feel a tradition in the making.That night it was finally quiet. I fell asleep quickly, exhausted.
The rest of the week was uneventful. I got used to the routine of my classes. By Friday I was able to
recognize, if not name, almost all the students at school. In Gym, the kids on my team learned not to pass
me the ball and to step quickly in front of me if the other team tried to take advantage of my weakness. I
happily stayed out of their way.
Edward Cullen didn't come back to school.
Every day, I watched anxiously until the rest of the Cullens entered the cafeteria without him. Then I
could relax and join in the lunchtime conversation. Mostly it centered around a trip to the La Push Ocean
Park in two weeks that Mike was putting together. I was invited, and I had agreed to go, more out of
politeness than desire. Beaches should be hot and dry.
By Friday I was perfectly comfortable entering my Biology class, no longer worried that Edward would
be there. For all I knew, he had dropped out of school. I tried not to think about him, but I couldn't
totally suppress the worry that I was responsible for his continued absence, ridiculous as it seemed.
My first weekend in Forks passed without incident. Charlie, unused to spending time in the usually empty
house, worked most of the weekend. I cleaned the house, got ahead on my homework, and wrote my
mom more bogusly cheerful e-mail. I did drive to the library Saturday, but it was so poorly stocked that I
didn't bother to get a card; I would have to make a date to visit Olympia or Seattle soon and find a good
bookstore. I wondered idly what kind of gas mileage the truck got... and shuddered at the thought.
The rain stayed soft over the weekend, quiet, so I was able to sleep well.
People greeted me in the parking lot Monday morning. I didn't know all their names, but I waved back
and smiled at everyone. It was colder this morning, but happily not raining. In English, Mike took his
accustomed seat by my side. We had a pop quiz on Wuthering Heights. It was straightforward, very
easy.
All in all, I was feeling a lot more comfortable than I had thought I would feel by this point. More
comfortable than I had ever expected to feel here.
When we walked out of class, the air was full of swirling bits of white. I could hear people shouting
excitedly to each other. The wind bit at my cheeks, my nose.
"Wow," Mike said. "It's snowing."
I looked at the little cotton fluffs that were building up along the sidewalk and swirling erratically past my
face.
"Ew." Snow. There went my good day.
He looked surprised. "Don't you like snow?"
"No. That means it's too cold for rain." Obviously. "Besides, I thought it was supposed to come down in
flakes — you know, each one unique and all that. These just look like the ends of Q-tips."
"Haven't you ever seen snow fall before?" he asked incredulously.
"Sure I have." I paused. "On TV."
Mike laughed. And then a big, squishy ball of dripping snow smacked into the back of his head. We bothturned to see where it came from. I had my suspicions about Eric, who was walking away, his back
toward us — in the wrong direction for his next class. Mike appatently had the same notion. He bent
over and began scraping together a pile of the white mush.
"I'll see you at lunch, okay?" I kept walking as I spoke. "Once people start throwing wet stuff, I go
inside."
He just nodded, his eyes on Eric's retreating figure.
Throughout the morning, everyone chattered excitedly about the snow; apparently it was the first snowfall
of the new year. I kept my mouth shut. Sure, it was drier than rain — until it melted in your socks.
I walked alertly to the cafeteria with Jessica after Spanish. Mush balls were flying everywhere. I kept a
binder in my hands, ready to use it as a shield if necessary. Jessica thought I was hilarious, but something
in my expression kept her from lobbing a snowball at me herself.
Mike caught up to us as we walked in the doors, laughing, with ice melting the spikes in his hair. He and
Jessica were talking animatedly about the snow fight as we got in line to buy food. I glanced toward that
table in the corner out of habit. And then I froze where I stood. There were five people at the table.
Jessica pulled on my arm.
"Hello? Bella? What do you want?"
I looked down; my ears were hot. I had no reason to feel self-conscious, I reminded myself. I hadn't
done anything wrong.
"What's with Bella?" Mike asked Jessica.
"Nothing," I answered. "I'll just get a soda today." I caught up to the end of the line.
"Aren't you hungry?" Jessica asked.
"Actually, I feel a little sick," I said, my eyes still on the floor.
I waited for them to get their food, and then followed them to a table, my eyes on my feet.
I sipped my soda slowly, my stomach churning. Twice Mike asked, with unnecessary concern, how I
was feeling.
I told him it was nothing, but I was wondering if I should play it up and escape to the nurse's office for
the next hour.
Ridiculous. I shouldn't have to run away.
I decided to permit myself one glance at the Cullen family's table. If he was glaring at me, I would skip
Biology, like the coward I was.
I kept my head down and glanced up under my lashes. None of them were looking this way. I lifted my
head a little.
They were laughing. Edward, Jasper, and Emmett all had their hair entirely saturated with melting snow.
Alice and Rosalie were leaning away as Emmett shook his dripping hair toward them. They were
enjoying the snowy day, just like everyone else — only they looked more like a scene from a movie than
the rest of us.But, aside from the laughter and playfulness, there was something different, and I couldn't quite pinpoint
what that difference was. I examined Edward the most carefully. His skin was less pale, I decided —
flushed from the snow fight maybe — the circles under his eyes much less noticeable. But there was
something more. I pondered, staring, trying to isolate the change.
"Bella, what are you staring at?" Jessica intruded, her eyes following my stare.
At that precise moment, his eyes flashed over to meet mine.
I dropped my head, letting my hair fall to conceal my face. I was sure, though, in the instant our eyes met,
that he didn't look harsh or unfriendly as he had the last time I'd seen him. He looked merely curious
again, unsatisfied in some way.
"Edward Cullen is staring at you," Jessica giggled in my ear.
"He doesn't look angry, does he?" I couldn't help asking.
"No," she said, sounding confused by my question. "Should he be?"
"I don't think he likes me," I confided. I still felt queasy. I put my head down on my arm.
"The Cullens don't like anybody... well, they don't notice anybody enough to like them. But he's still
staring at you."
"Stop looking at him," I hissed.
She snickered, but she looked away. I raised my head enough to make sure that she did, contemplating
violence if she resisted.
Mike interrupted us then — he was planning an epic battle of the blizzard in the parking lot after school
and wanted us to join. Jessica agreed enthusiastically. The way she looked at Mike left little doubt that
she would be up for anything he suggested. I kept silent. I would have to hide in the gym until the parking
lot cleared.
For the rest of the lunch hour I very carefully kept my eyes at my own table. I decided to honor the
bargain I'd made with myself. Since he didn't look angry, I would go to Biology. My stomach did
frightened little flips at the thought of sitting next to him again.
I didn't really want to walk to class with Mike as usual — he seemed to be a popular target for the
snowball snipers — but when we went to the door, everyone besides me groaned in unison. It was
raining, washing all traces of the snow away in clear, icy ribbons down the side of the walkway. I pulled
my hood up, secretly pleased. I would be free to go straight home after Gym.
Mike kept up a string of complaints on the way to building four.
Once inside the classroom, I saw with relief that my table was still empty. Mr. Banner was walking
around the room, distributing one microscope and box of slides to each table. Class didn't start for a few
minutes, and the room buzzed with conversation. I kept my eyes away from the door, doodling idly on
the cover of my notebook.
I heard very clearly when the chair next to me moved, but my eyes stayed carefully focused on the
pattern I was drawing.
"Hello," said a quiet, musical voice.I looked up, stunned that he was speaking to me. He was sitting as far away from me as the desk
allowed, but his chair was angled toward me. His hair was dripping wet, disheveled — even so, he
looked like he'd just finished shooting a commercial for hair gel. His dazzling face was friendly, open, a
slight smile on his flawless lips. But his eyes were careful.
"My name is Edward Cullen," he continued. "I didn't have a chance to introduce myself last week. You
must be Bella Swan."
My mind was spinning with confusion. Had I made up the whole thing? He was perfectly polite now. I
had to speak; he was waiting. But I couldn't think of anything conventional to say.
"H-how do you know my name?" I stammered.
He laughed a soft, enchanting laugh.
"Oh, I think everyone knows your name. The whole town's been waiting for you to arrive."
I grimaced. I knew it was something like that.
"No," I persisted stupidly. "I meant, why did you call me Bella?"
He seemed confused. "Do you prefer Isabella?"
"No, I like Bella," I said. "But I think Charlie — I mean my dad — must call me Isabella behind my back
— that's what everyone here seems to know me as," I tried to explain, feeling like an utter moron.
"Oh." He let it drop. I looked away awkwardly.
Thankfully, Mr. Banner started class at that moment. I tried to concentrate as he explained the lab we
would be doing today. The slides in the box were out of order. Working as lab partners, we had to
separate the slides of onion root tip cells into the phases of mitosis they represented and label them
accordingly. We weren't supposed to use our books. In twenty minutes, he would be coming around to
see who had it right.
"Get started," he commanded.
"Ladies first, partner?" Edward asked. I looked up to see him smiling a crooked smile so beautiful that I
could only stare at him like an idiot.
"Or I could start, if you wish." The smile faded; he was obviously wondering if I was mentally competent.
"No," I said, flushing. "I'll go ahead."
I was showing off, just a little. I'd already done this lab, and I knew what I was looking for. It should be
easy. I snapped the first slide into place under the microscope and adjusted it quickly to the 40X
objective. I studied the slide briefly.
My assessment was confident. "Prophase."
"Do you mind if I look?" he asked as I began to remove the slide. His hand caught mine, to stop me, as
he asked. His fingers were ice-cold, like he'd been holding them in a snowdrift before class. But that
wasn't why I jerked my hand away so quickly. When he touched me, it stung my hand as if an electric
current had passed through us.
"I'm sorry," he muttered, pulling his hand back immediately. However, he continued to reach for themicroscope. I watched him, still staggered, as he examined the slide for an even shorter time than I had.
"Prophase," he agreed, writing it neatly in the first space on our worksheet. He swiftly switched out the
first slide for the second, and then glanced at it cursorily.
"Anaphase," he murmured, writing it down as he spoke.
I kept my voice indifferent. "May I?"
He smirked and pushed the microscope to me.
I looked through the eyepiece eagerly, only to be disappointed. Dang it, he was right.
"Slide three?" I held out my hand without looking at him.
He handed it to me; it seemed like he was being careful not to touch my skin again.
I took the most fleeting look I could manage.
"Interphase." I passed him the microscope before he could ask for it. He took a swift peek, and then
wrote it down. I would have written it while he looked, but his clear, elegant script intimidated me. I
didn't want to spoil the page with my clumsy scrawl.
We were finished before anyone else was close. I could see Mike and his partner comparing two slides
again and again, and another group had their book open under the table.
Which left me with nothing to do but try to not look at him... unsuccessfully. I glanced up, and he was
staring at me, that same inexplicable look of frustration in his eyes. Suddenly I identified that subtle
difference in his face.
"Did you get contacts?" I blurted out unthinkingly.
He seemed puzzled by my unexpected question. "No."
"Oh," I mumbled. "I thought there was something different about your eyes."
He shrugged, and looked away.
In fact, I was sure there was something different. I vividly remembered the flat black color of his eyes the
last time he'd glared at me — the color was striking against the background of his pale skin and his
auburn hair. Today, his eyes were a completely different color: a strange ocher, darker than butterscotch,
but with the same golden tone. I didn't understand how that could be, unless he was lying for some
reason about the contacts. Or maybe Forks was making me crazy in the literal sense of the word.
I looked down. His hands were clenched into hard fists again.
Mr. Banner came to our table then, to see why we weren't working. He looked over our shoulders to
glance at the completed lab, and then stared more intently to check the answers.
"So, Edward, didn't you think Isabella should get a chance with the microscope?" Mr. Banner asked.
"Bella," Edward corrected automatically. "Actually, she identified three of the five."
Mr. Banner looked at me now; his expression was skeptical.
"Have you done this lab before?" he asked.I smiled sheepishly. "Not with onion root."
"Whitefish blastula?"
"Yeah."
Mr. Banner nodded. "Were you in an advanced placement program in Phoenix?"
"Yes."
"Well," he said after a moment, "I guess it's good you two are lab partners." He mumbled something else
as he walked away. After he left, I began doodling on my notebook again.
"It's too bad about the snow, isn't it?" Edward asked. I had the feeling that he was forcing himself to
make small talk with me. Paranoia swept over me again. It was like he had heard my conversation with
Jessica at lunch and was trying to prove me wrong.
"Not really," I answered honestly, instead of pretending to be normal like everyone else. I was still trying
to dislodge the stupid feeling of suspicion, and I couldn't concentrate.
"You don't like the cold." It wasn't a question.
"Or the wet."
"Forks must be a difficult place for you to live," he mused.
"You have no idea," I muttered darkly.
He looked fascinated by what I said, for some reason I couldn't imagine. His face was such a distraction
that I tried not to look at it any more than courtesy absolutely demanded.
"Why did you come here, then?"
No one had asked me that — not straight out like he did, demanding.
"It's... complicated."
"I think I can keep up," he pressed.
I paused for a long moment, and then made the mistake of meeting his gaze. His dark gold eyes confused
me, and I answered without thinking.
"My mother got remarried," I said.
"That doesn't sound so complex," he disagreed, but he was suddenly sympathetic. "When did that
happen?"
"Last September." My voice sounded sad, even to me.
"And you don't like him," Edward surmised, his tone still kind.
"No, Phil is fine. Too young, maybe, but nice enough."
"Why didn't you stay with them?"
I couldn't fathom his interest, but he continued to stare at me with penetrating eyes, as if my dull life'sstory was somehow vitally important.
"Phil travels a lot. He plays ball for a living." I half-smiled.
"Have I heard of him?" he asked, smiling in response.
"Probably not. He doesn't play well. Strictly minor league. He moves around a lot."
"And your mother sent you here so that she could travel with him." He said it as an assumption again, not
a question.
My chin raised a fraction. "No, she did not send me here. I sent myself."
His eyebrows knit together. "I don't understand," he admitted, and he seemed unnecessarily frustrated by
that fact.
I sighed. Why was I explaining this to him? He continued to stare at me with obvious curiosity.
"She stayed with me at first, but she missed him. It made her unhappy... so I decided it was time to
spend some quality time with Charlie." My voice was glum by the time I finished.
"But now you're unhappy," he pointed out.
"And?" I challenged.
"That doesn't seem fair." He shrugged, but his eyes were still intense.
I laughed without humor. "Hasn't anyone ever told you? Life isn't fair."
"I believe I have heard that somewhere before," he agreed dryly.
"So that's all," I insisted, wondering why he was still staring at me that way.
His gaze became appraising. "You put on a good show," he said slowly. "But I'd be willing to bet that
you're suffering more than you let anyone see."
I grimaced at him, resisting the impulse to stick out my tongue like a five-year-old, and looked away.
"Am I wrong?"
I tried to ignore him.
"I didn't think so," he murmured smugly.
"Why does it matter to you?" I asked, irritated. I kept my eyes away, watching the teacher make his
rounds.
"That's a very good question," he muttered, so quietly that I wondered if he was talking to himself.
However, after a few seconds of silence, I decided that was the only answer I was going to get.
I sighed, scowling at the blackboard.
"Am I annoying you?" he asked. He sounded amused.
I glanced at him without thinking... and told the truth again. "Not exactly. I'm more annoyed at myself.
My face is so easy to read — my mother always calls me her open book." I frowned."On the contrary, I find you very difficult to read." Despite everything that I'd said and he'd guessed, he
sounded like he meant it.
"You must be a good reader then," I replied.
"Usually." He smiled widely, flashing a set of perfect, ultrawhite teeth.
Mr. Banner called the class to order then, and I turned with relief to listen. I was in disbelief that I'd just
explained my dreary life to this bizarre, beautiful boy who may or may not despise me. He'd seemed
engrossed in our conversation, but now I could see, from the corner of my eye, that he was leaning away
from me again, his hands gripping the edge of the table with unmistakable tension.
I tried to appear attentive as Mr. Banner illustrated, with transparencies on the overhead projector, what
I had seen without difficulty through the microscope. But my thoughts were unmanageable.
When the bell finally rang, Edward rushed as swiftly and as gracefully from the room as he had last
Monday. And, like last Monday, I stared after him in amazement.
Mike skipped quickly to my side and picked up my books for me. I imagined him with a wagging tail.
"That was awful," he groaned. "They all looked exactly the same. You're lucky you had Cullen for a
partner."
"I didn't have any trouble with it," I said, stung by his assumption. I regretted the snub instantly. "I've done
the lab before, though," I added before he could get his feelings hurt.
"Cullen seemed friendly enough today," he commented as we shrugged into our raincoats. He didn't seem
pleased about it.
I tried to sound indifferent. "I wonder what was with him last Monday."
I couldn't concentrate on Mike's chatter as we walked to Gym, and RE. didn't do much to hold my
attention, either. Mike was on my team today. He chivalrously covered my position as well as his own,
so my woolgathering was only interrupted when it was my turn to serve; my team ducked warily out of
the way every time I was up.
The rain was just a mist as I walked to the parking lot, but I was happier when I was in the dry cab. I got
the heater running, for once not caring about the mind-numbing roar of the engine. I unzipped my jacket,
put the hood down, and fluffed my damp hair out so the heater could dry it on the way home.
I looked around me to make sure it was clear. That's when I noticed the still, white figure. Edward Cullen
was leaning against the front door of the Volvo, three cars down from me, and staring intently in my
direction. I swiftly looked away and threw the truck into reverse, almost hitting a rusty Toyota Corolla in
my haste. Lucky for the Toyota, I stomped on the brake in time. It was just the sort of car that my truck
would make scrap metal of. I took a deep breath, still looking out the other side of my car, and
cautiously pulled out again, with greater success. I stared straight ahead as I passed the Volvo, but from
a peripheral peek, I would swear I saw him laughing.
3. PHENOMENON
When I opened my eyes in the morning, something was different.It was the light. It was still the gray-green light of a cloudy day in the forest, but it was clearer somehow. I
realized there was no fog veiling my window.
I jumped up to look outside, and then groaned in horror.
A fine layer of snow covered the yard, dusted the top of my truck, and whitened the road. But that
wasn't the worst part. All the rain from yesterday had frozen solid — coating the needles on the trees in
fantastic, gorgeous patterns, and making the driveway a deadly ice slick. I had enough trouble not falling
down when the ground was dry; it might be safer for me to go back to bed now.
Charlie had left for work before I got downstairs. In a lot of ways, living with Charlie was like having my
own place, and I found myself reveling in the aloneness instead of being lonely.
I threw down a quick bowl of cereal and some orange juice from the carton. I felt excited to go to
school, and that scared me. I knew it wasn't the stimulating learning environment I was anticipating, or
seeing my new set of friends. If I was being honest with myself, I knew I was eager to get to school
because I would see Edward Cullen. And that was very, very stupid.
I should be avoiding him entirely after my brainless and embarrassing babbling yesterday. And I was
suspicious of him; why should he lie about his eyes? I was still frightened of the hostility I sometimes felt
emanating from him, and I was still tongue-tied whenever I pictured his perfect face. I was well aware
that my league and his league were spheres that did not touch. So I shouldn't be at all anxious to see him
today.
It took every ounce of my concentration to make it down the icy brick driveway alive. I almost lost my
balance when I finally got to the truck, but I managed to cling to the side mirror and save myself. Clearly,
today was going to be nightmarish.
Driving to school, I distracted myself from my fear of falling and my unwanted speculations about
Edward Cullen by thinking about Mike and Eric, and the obvious difference in how teenage boys
responded to me here. I was sure I looked exactly the same as I had in Phoenix. Maybe it was just that
the boys back home had watched me pass slowly through all the awkward phases of adolescence and
still thought of me that way. Perhaps it was because I was a novelty here, where novelties were few and
far between. Possibly my crippling clumsiness was seen as endearing rather than pathetic, casting me as a
damsel in distress. Whatever the reason, Mike's puppy dog behavior and Eric's apparent rivalry with him
were disconcerting. I wasn't sure if I didn't prefer being ignored.
My truck seemed to have no problem with the black ice that covered the roads. I drove very slowly,
though, not wanting to carve a path of destruction through Main Street.
When I got out of my truck at school, I saw why I'd had so little trouble. Something silver caught my eye,
and I walked to the back of the truck — carefully holding the side for support — to examine my tires.
There were thin chains crisscrossed in diamond shapes around them. Charlie had gotten up who knows
how early to put snow chains on my truck. My throat suddenly felt tight. I wasn't used to being taken
care of, and Charlie's unspoken concern caught me by surprise.
I was standing by the back corner of the truck, struggling to fight back the sudden wave of emotion the
snow chains had brought on, when I heard an odd sound.
It was a high-pitched screech, and it was fast becoming painfully loud. I looked up, startled.
I saw several things simultaneously. Nothing was moving in slow motion, the way it does in the movies.
Instead, the adrenaline rush seemed to make my brain work much faster, and I was able to absorb inclear detail several things at once.
Edward Cullen was standing four cars down from me, staring at me in horror. His face stood out from a
sea of faces, all frozen in the same mask of shock. But of more immediate importance was the dark blue
van that was skidding, tires locked and squealing against the brakes, spinning wildly across the ice of the
parking lot. It was going to hit the back corner of my truck, and I was standing between them. I didn't
even have time to close my eyes.
Just before I heard the shattering crunch of the van folding around the truck bed, something hit me, hard,
but not from the direction I was expecting. My head cracked against the icy blacktop, and I felt
something solid and cold pinning me to the ground. I was lying on the pavement behind the tan car I'd
parked next to. But I didn't have a chance to notice anything else, because the van was still coming. It
had curled gratingly around the end of the truck and, still spinning and sliding, was about to collide with
me again.
A low oath made me aware that someone was with me, and the voice was impossible not to recognize.
Two long, white hands shot out protectively in front of me, and the van shuddered to a stop a foot from
my face, the large hands fitting providentially into a deep dent in the side of the van's body.
Then his hands moved so fast they blurred. One was suddenly gripping under the body of the van, and
something was dragging me, swinging my legs around like a rag doll's, till they hit the tire of the tan car. A
groaning metallic thud hurt my ears, and the van settled, glass popping, onto the asphalt — exactly
where, a second ago, my legs had been.
It was absolutely silent for one long second before the screaming began. In the abrupt bedlam, I could
hear more than one person shouting my name. But more clearly than all the yelling, I could hear Edward
Cullen's low, frantic voice in my ear.
"Bella? Are you all right?"
"I'm fine." My voice sounded strange. I tried to sit up, and realized he was holding me against the side of
his body in an iron grasp.
"Be careful," he warned as I struggled. "I think you hit your head pretty hard."
I became aware of a throbbing ache centered above my left ear.
"Ow," I said, surprised.
"That's what I thought." His voice, amazingly, sounded like he was suppressing laughter.
"How in the..." I trailed off, trying to clear my head, get my bearings. "How did you get over here so
fast?"
"I was standing right next to you, Bella," he said, his tone serious again.
I turned to sit up, and this time he let me, releasing his hold around my waist and sliding as far from me as
he could in the limited space. I looked at his concerned, innocent expression and was disoriented again
by the force of his gold-colored eyes. What was I asking him?
And then they found us, a crowd of people with tears streaming down their faces, shouting at each other,
shouting at us.
"Don't move," someone instructed."Get Tyler out of the van!" someone else shouted.
There was a flurry of activity around us. I tried to get up, but Edward's cold hand pushed my shoulder
down.
"Just stay put for now."
"But it's cold," I complained. It surprised me when he chuckled under his breath. There was an edge to
the sound.
"You were over there," I suddenly remembered, and his chuckle stopped short. "You were by your car."
His expression turned hard. "No, I wasn't."
"I saw you." All around us was chaos. I could hear the gruffer voices of adults arriving on the scene. But I
obstinately held on to our argument; I was right, and he was going to admit it.
"Bella, I was standing with you, and I pulled you out of the way." He unleashed the full, devastating
power of his eyes on me, as if trying to communicate something crucial.
"No." I set my jaw.
The gold in his eyes blazed. "Please, Bella."
"Why?" I demanded.
"Trust me," he pleaded, his soft voice overwhelming.
I could hear the sirens now. "Will you promise to explain everything to me later?"
"Fine," he snapped, abruptly exasperated.
"Fine," I repeated angrily.
It took six EMTs and two teachers — Mr. Varner and Coach Clapp — to shift the van far enough away
from us to bring the stretchers in. Edward vehemently refused his, and I tried to do the same, but the
traitor told them I'd hit my head and probably had a concussion. I almost died of humiliation when they
put on the neck brace. It looked like the entire school was there, watching soberly as they loaded me in
the back of the ambulance. Edward got to ride in the front. It was maddening.
To make matters worse, Chief Swan arrived before they could get me safely away.
"Bella!" he yelled in panic when he recognized me on the stretcher.
"I'm completely fine, Char — Dad," I sighed. "There's nothing wrong with me."
He turned to the closest EMT for a second opinion. I tuned him out to consider the jumble of inexplicable
images churning chaotically in my head. When they'd lifted me away from the car, I had seen the deep
dent in the tan car's bumper — a very distinct dent that fit the contours of Edward's shoulders... as if he
had braced himself against the car with enough force to damage the metal frame...
And then there was his family, looking on from the distance, with expressions that ranged from
disapproval to fury but held no hint of concern for their brother's safety.
I tried to think of a logical solution that could explain what I had just seen — a solution that excluded theassumption that I was insane.
Naturally, the ambulance got a police escort to the county hospital. I felt ridiculous the whole time they
were unloading me. What made it worse was that Edward simply glided through the hospital doors under
his own power. I ground my teeth together.
They put me in the emergency room, a long room with a line of beds separated by pastel-patterned
curtains. A nurse put a pressure cuff on my arm and a thermometer under my tongue. Since no one
bothered pulling the curtain around to give me some privacy, I decided I wasn't obligated to wear the
stupid-looking neck brace anymore. When the nurse walked away, I quickly unfastened the Velcro and
threw it under the bed.
There was another flurry of hospital personnel, another stretcher brought to the bed next to me. I
recognized Tyler Crowley from my Government class beneath the bloodstained bandages wrapped
tightly around his head. Tyler looked a hundred times worse than I felt. But he was staring anxiously at
me.
"Bella, I'm so sorry!"
"I'm fine, Tyler — you look awful, are you all right?" As we spoke, nurses began unwinding his soiled
bandages, exposing a myriad of shallow slices all over his forehead and left cheek.
He ignored me. "I thought I was going to kill you! I was going too fast, and I hit the ice wrong..." He
winced as one nurse started dabbing at his face.
"Don't worry about it; you missed me."
"How did you get out of the way so fast? You were there, and then you were gone..."
"Umm... Edward pulled me out of the way."
He looked confused. "Who?"
"Edward Cullen — he was standing next to me." I'd always been a terrible liar; I didn't sound convincing
at all.
"Cullen? I didn't see him... wow, it was all so fast, I guess. Is he okay?"
"I think so. He's here somewhere, but they didn't make him use a stretcher."
I knew I wasn't crazy. What had happened? There was no way to explain away what I'd seen.
They wheeled me away then, to X-ray my head. I told them there was nothing wrong, and I was right.
Not even a concussion. I asked if I could leave, but the nurse said I had to talk to a doctor first. So I was
trapped in the ER, waiting, harassed by Tyler's constant apologies and promises to make it up to me. No
matter how many times I tried to convince him I was fine, he continued to torment himself. Finally, I
closed my eyes and ignored him. He kept up a remorseful mumbling.
"Is she sleeping?" a musical voice asked. My eyes flew open.
Edward was standing at the foot of my bed, smirking. I glared at him. It wasn't easy — it would have
been more natural to ogle.
"Hey, Edward, I'm really sorry —" Tyler began.Edward lifted a hand to stop him.
"No blood, no foul," he said, flashing his brilliant teeth. He moved to sit on the edge of Tyler's bed, facing
me. He smirked again.
"So, what's the verdict?" he asked me.
"There's nothing wrong with me at all, but they won't let me go," I complained. "How come you aren't
strapped to a gurney like the rest of us?"
"It's all about who you know," he answered. "But don't worry, I came to spring you."
Then a doctor walked around the corner, and my mouth fell open. He was young, he was blond... and
he was handsomer than any movie star I'd ever seen. He was pale, though, and tired-looking, with circles
under his eyes. From Charlie's description, this had to be Edward's father.
"So, Miss Swan," Dr. Cullen said in a remarkably appealing voice, "how are you feeling?"
"I'm fine," I said, for the last time, I hoped.
He walked to the lightboard on the wall over my head, and turned it on.
"Your X-rays look good," he said. "Does your head hurt? Edward said you hit it pretty hard."
"It's fine," I repeated with a sigh, throwing a quick scowl toward Edward.
The doctor's cool fingers probed lightly along my skull. He noticed when I winced.
"Tender?" he asked.
"Not really." I'd had worse.
I heard a chuckle, and looked over to see Edward's patronizing smile. My eyes narrowed.
"Well, your father is in the waiting room — you can go home with him now. But come back if you feel
dizzy or have trouble with your eyesight at all."
"Can't I go back to school?" I asked, imagining Charlie trying to be attentive.
"Maybe you should take it easy today."
I glanced at Edward. "Does he get to go to school?"
"Someone has to spread the good news that we survived," Edward said smugly.
"Actually," Dr. Cullen corrected, "most of the school seems to be in the waiting room."
"Oh no," I moaned, covering my face with my hands.
Dr. Cullen raised his eyebrows. "Do you want to stay?"
"No, no!" I insisted, throwing my legs over the side of the bed and hopping down quickly. Too quickly
— I staggered, and Dr. Cullen caught me. He looked concerned.
"I'm fine," I assured him again. No need to tell him my balance problems had nothing to do with hitting my
head."Take some Tylenol for the pain," he suggested as he steadied me.
"It doesn't hurt that bad," I insisted.
"It sounds like you were extremely lucky," Dr. Cullen said, smiling as he signed my chart with a flourish.
"Lucky Edward happened to be standing next to me," I amended with a hard glance at the subject of my
statement.
"Oh, well, yes," Dr. Cullen agreed, suddenly occupied with the papers in front of him. Then he looked
away, at Tyler, and walked to the next bed. My intuition flickered; the doctor was in on it.
"I'm afraid that you'll have to stay with us just a little bit longer," he said to Tyler, and began checking his
cuts.
As soon as the doctor's back was turned, I moved to Edward's side.
"Can I talk to you for a minute?" I hissed under my breath. He took a step back from me, his jaw
suddenly clenched.
"Your father is waiting for you," he said through his teeth.
I glanced at Dr. Cullen and Tyler.
"I'd like to speak with you alone, if you don't mind," I pressed.
He glared, and then turned his back and strode down the long room. I nearly had to run to keep up. As
soon as we turned the corner into a short hallway, he spun around to face me.
"What do you want?" he asked, sounding annoyed. His eyes were cold.
His unfriendliness intimidated me. My words came out with less severity than I'd intended. "You owe me
an explanation," I reminded him.
"I saved your life — I don't owe you anything."
I flinched back from the resentment in his voice. "You promised."
"Bella, you hit your head, you don't know what you're talking about." His tone was cutting.
My temper flared now, and I glared defiantly at him. "There's nothing wrong with my head."
He glared back. "What do you want from me, Bella?"
"I want to know the truth," I said. "I want to know why I'm lying for you."
"What do you think happened?" he snapped.
It came out in a rush.
"All I know is that you weren't anywhere near me — Tyler didn't see you, either, so don't tell me I hit my
head too hard. That van was going to crush us both — and it didn't, and your hands left dents in the side
of it — and you left a dent in the other car, and you're not hurt at all — and the van should have smashed
my legs, but you were holding it up..." I could hear how crazy it sounded, and I couldn't continue. I was
so mad I could feel the tears coming; I tried to force them back by grinding my teeth together.He was staring at me incredulously. But his face was tense, defensive.
"You think I lifted a van off you?" His tone questioned my sanity, but it only made me more suspicious. It
was like a perfectly delivered line by a skilled actor.
I merely nodded once, jaw tight.
"Nobody will believe that, you know." His voice held an edge of derision now.
"I'm not going to tell anybody." I said each word slowly, carefully controlling my anger.
Surprise flitted across his face. "Then why does it matter?"
"It matters to me," I insisted. "I don't like to lie — so there'd better be a good reason why I'm doing it."
"Can't you just thank me and get over it?"
"Thank you." I waited, fuming and expectant.
"You're not going to let it go, are you?"
"No."
"In that case... I hope you enjoy disappointment."
We scowled at each other in silence. I was the first to speak, trying to keep myself focused. I was in
danger of being distracted by his livid, glorious face. It was like trying to stare down a destroying angel.
"Why did you even bother?" I asked frigidly.
He paused, and for a brief moment his stunning face was unexpectedly vulnerable.
"I don't know," he whispered.
And then he turned his back on me and walked away.
I was so angry, it took me a few minutes until I could move. When I could walk, I made my way slowly
to the exit at the end of the hallway.
The waiting room was more unpleasant than I'd feared. It seemed like every face I knew in Forks was
there, staring at me. Charlie rushed to my side; I put up my hands.
"There's nothing wrong with me," I assured him sullenly. I was still aggravated, not in the mood for
chitchat.
"What did the doctor say?"
"Dr. Cullen saw me, and he said I was fine and I could go home." I sighed. Mike and Jessica and Eric
were all there, beginning to converge on us. "Let's go," I urged.
Charlie put one arm behind my back, not quite touching me, and led me to the glass doors of the exit. I
waved sheepishly at my friends, hoping to convey that they didn't need to worry anymore. It was a huge
relief— the first time I'd ever felt that way — to get into the cruiser.
We drove in silence. I was so wrapped up in my thoughts that I barely knew Charlie was there. I was
positive that Edward's defensive behavior in the hall was a confirmation of the bizarre things I still couldhardly believe I'd witnessed.
When we got to the house, Charlie finally spoke.
"Um... you'll need to call Renée." He hung his head, guilty.
I was appalled. "You told Mom!"
"Sorry."
I slammed the cruiser's door a little harder than necessary on my way out.
My mom was in hysterics, of course. I had to tell her I felt fine at least thirty times before she would calm
down. She begged me to come home — forgetting the fact that home was empty at the moment — but
her pleas were easier to resist than I would have thought. I was consumed by the mystery Edward
presented. And more than a little obsessed by Edward himself. Stupid, stupid, stupid. I wasn't as eager
to escape Forks as I should be, as any normal, sane person would be.
I decided I might as well go to bed early that night. Charlie continued to watch me anxiously, and it was
getting on my nerves. I stopped on my way to grab three Tylenol from the bathroom. They did help, and,
as the pain eased, I drifted to sleep.
That was the first night I dreamed of Edward Cullen.
4. INVITATIONS
In my dream it was very dark, and what dim light there was seemed to be radiating from Edward's skin. I
couldn't see his face, just his back as he walked away from me, leaving me in the blackness. No matter
how fast I ran, I couldn't catch up to him; no matter how loud I called, he never turned. Troubled, I woke
in the middle of the night and couldn't sleep again for what seemed like a very long time. After that, he
was in my dreams nearly every night, but always on the periphery, never within reach.
The month that followed the accident was uneasy, tense, and, at first, embarrassing.
To my dismay, I found myself the center of attention for the rest of that week. Tyler Crowley was
impossible, following me around, obsessed with making amends to me somehow. I tried to convince him
what I wanted more than anything else was for him to forget all about it — especially since nothing had
actually happened to me — but he remained insistent. He followed me between classes and sat at our
now-crowded lunch table. Mike and Eric were even less friendly toward him than they were to each
other, which made me worry that I'd gained another unwelcome fan.
No one seemed concerned about Edward, though I explained over and over that he was the hero —
how he had pulled me out of the way and had nearly been crushed, too. I tried to be convincing. Jessica,
Mike, Eric, and everyone else always commented that they hadn't even seen him there till the van was
pulled away.
I wondered to myself why no one else had seen him standing so far away, before he was suddenly,
impossibly saving my life. With chagrin, I realized the probable cause — no one else was as aware of
Edward as I always was. No one else watched him the way I did. How pitiful.
Edward was never surrounded by crowds of curious bystanders eager for his firsthand account. Peopleavoided him as usual. The Cullens and the Hales sat at the same table as always, not eating, talking only
among themselves. None of them, especially Edward, glanced my way anymore.
When he sat next to me in class, as far from me as the table would allow, he seemed totally unaware of
my presence. Only now and then, when his fists would suddenly ball up — skin stretched even whiter
over the bones — did I wonder if he wasn't quite as oblivious as he appeared.
He wished he hadn't pulled me from the path of Tyler's van — there was no other conclusion I could
come to.
I wanted very much to talk to him, and the day after the accident I tried. The last time I'd seen him,
outside the ER, we'd both been so furious. I still was angry that he wouldn't trust me with the truth, even
though I was keeping my part of the bargain flawlessly. But he had in fact saved my life, no matter how
he'd done it. And, overnight, the heat of my anger faded into awed gratitude.
He was already seated when I got to Biology, looking straight ahead. I sat down, expecting him to turn
toward me. He showed no sign that he realized I was there.
"Hello, Edward," I said pleasantly, to show him I was going to behave myself.
He turned his head a fraction toward me without meeting my gaze, nodded once, and then looked the
other way.
And that was the last contact I'd had with him, though he was there, a foot away from me, every day. I
watched him sometimes, unable to stop myself— from a distance, though, in the cafeteria or parking lot. I
watched as his golden eyes grew perceptibly darker day by day. But in class I gave no more notice that
he existed than he showed toward me. I was miserable. And the dreams continued.
Despite my outright lies, the tenor of my e-mails alerted Renée to my depression, and she called a few
times, worried. I tried to convince her it was just the weather that had me down.
Mike, at least, was pleased by the obvious coolness between me and my lab partner. I could see he'd
been worried that Edward's daring rescue might have impressed me, and he was relieved that it seemed
to have the opposite effect. He grew more confident, sitting on the edge of my table to talk before
Biology class started, ignoring Edward as completely as he ignored us.
The snow washed away for good after that one dangerously icy day. Mike was disappointed he'd never
gotten to stage his snowball fight, but pleased that the beach trip would soon be possible. The rain
continued heavily, though, and the weeks passed.
Jessica made me aware of another event looming on the horizon — she called the first Tuesday of March
to ask my permission to invite Mike to the girls' choice spring dance in two weeks.
"Are you sure you don't mind... you weren't planning to ask him?" she persisted when I told her I didn't
mind in the least.
"No, Jess, I'm not going," I assured her. Dancing was glaringly outside my range of abilities.
"It will be really fun." Her attempt to convince me was halfhearted. I suspected that Jessica enjoyed my
inexplicable popularity more than my actual company.
"You have fun with Mike," I encouraged.
The next day, I was surprised that Jessica wasn't her usual gushing self in Trig and Spanish. She wassilent as she walked by my side between classes, and I was afraid to ask her why. If Mike had turned her
down, I was the last person she would want to tell.
My fears were strengthened during lunch when Jessica sat as far from Mike as possible, chatting
animatedly with Eric. Mike was unusually quiet.
Mike was still quiet as he walked me to class, the uncomfortable look on his face a bad sign. But he
didn't broach the subject until I was in my seat and he was perched on my desk. As always, I was
electrically aware of Edward sitting close enough to touch, as distant as if he were merely an invention of
my imagination.
"So," Mike said, looking at the floor, "Jessica asked me to the spring dance."
"That's great." I made my voice bright and enthusiastic. "You'll have a lot of fun with Jessica."
"Well..." He floundered as he examined my smile, clearly not happy with my response. "I told her I had
to think about it."
"Why would you do that?" I let disapproval color my tone, though I was relieved he hadn't given her an
absolute no.
His face was bright red as he looked down again. Pity shook my resolve.
"I was wondering if... well, if you might be planning to ask me."
I paused for a moment, hating the wave of guilt that swept through me. But I saw, from the corner of my
eye, Edward's head tilt reflexively in my direction.
"Mike, I think you should tell her yes," I said.
"Did you already ask someone?" Did Edward notice how Mike's eyes flickered in his direction?
"No," I assured him. "I'm not going to the dance at all."
"Why not?" Mike demanded.
I didn't want to get into the safety hazards that dancing presented, so I quickly made new plans.
"I'm going to Seattle that Saturday," I explained. I needed to get out of town anyway — it was suddenly
the perfect time to go.
"Can't you go some other weekend?"
"Sorry, no," I said. "So you shouldn't make Jess wait any longer — it's rude."
"Yeah, you're right," he mumbled, and turned, dejected, to walk back to his seat. I closed my eyes and
pressed my fingers to my temples, trying to push the guilt and sympathy out of my head. Mr. Banner
began talking. I sighed and opened my eyes.
And Edward was staring at me curiously, that same, familiar edge of frustration even more distinct now in
his black eyes.
I stared back, surprised, expecting him to look quickly away. But instead he continued to gaze with
probing intensity into my eyes. There was no question of me looking away. My hands started to shake."Mr. Cullen?" the teacher called, seeking the answer to a question that I hadn't heard.
"The Krebs Cycle," Edward answered, seeming reluctant as he turned to look at Mr. Banner.
I looked down at my book as soon as his eyes released me, trying to find my place. Cowardly as ever, I
shifted my hair over my right shoulder to hide my face. I couldn't believe the rush of emotion pulsing
through me — just because he'd happened to look at me for the first time in a half-dozen weeks. I
couldn't allow him to have this level of influence over me. It was pathetic. More than pathetic, it was
unhealthy.
I tried very hard not to be aware of him for the rest of the hour, and, since that was impossible, at least
not to let him know that I was aware of him. When the bell rang at last, I turned my back to him to gather
my things, expecting him to leave immediately as usual.
"Bella?" His voice shouldn't have been so familiar to me, as if I'd known the sound of it all my life rather
than for just a few short weeks.
I turned slowly, unwillingly. I didn't want to feel what I knew I would feel when I looked at his
too-perfect face. My expression was wary when I finally turned to him; his expression was unreadable.
He didn't say anything.
"What? Are you speaking to me again?" I finally asked, an unintentional note of petulance in my voice.
His lips twitched, fighting a smile. "No, not really," he admitted.
I closed my eyes and inhaled slowly through my nose, aware that I was gritting my teeth. He waited.
"Then what do you want, Edward?" I asked, keeping my eyes closed; it was easier to talk to him
coherently that way.
"I'm sorry." He sounded sincere. "I'm being very rude, I know. But it's better this way, really."
I opened my eyes. His face was very serious.
"I don't know what you mean," I said, my voice guarded.
"It's better if we're not friends," he explained. "Trust me."
My eyes narrowed. I'd heard that before.
"It's too bad you didn't figure that out earlier," I hissed through my teeth. "You could have saved yourself
all this regret."
"Regret?" The word, and my tone, obviously caught him off guard. "Regret for what?"
"For not just letting that stupid van squish me."
He was astonished. He stared at me in disbelief.
When he finally spoke, he almost sounded mad. "You think I regret saving your life?"
"I know you do," I snapped.
"You don't know anything." He was definitely mad.
I turned my head sharply away from him, clenching my jaw against all the wild accusations I wanted tohurl at him. I gathered my books together, then stood and walked to the door. I meant to sweep
dramatically out of the room, but of course I caught the toe of my boot on the door jamb and dropped
my books. I stood there for a moment, thinking about leaving them. Then I sighed and bent to pick them
up. He was there; he'd already stacked them into a pile. He handed them to me, his face hard.
"Thank you," I said icily.
His eyes narrowed.
"You're welcome," he retorted.
I straightened up swiftly, turned away from him again, and stalked off to Gym without looking back.
Gym was brutal. We'd moved on to basketball. My team never passed me the ball, so that was good,
but I fell down a lot. Sometimes I took people with me. Today I was worse than usual because my head
was so filled with Edward. I tried to concentrate on my feet, but he kept creeping back into my thoughts
just when I really needed my balance.
It was a relief, as always, to leave. I almost ran to the truck; there were just so many people I wanted to
avoid. The truck had suffered only minimal damage in the accident. I'd had to replace the taillights, and if
I'd had a real paint job, I would have touched that up. Tyler's parents had to sell their van for parts.
I almost had a stroke when I rounded the corner and saw a tall, dark figure leaning against the side of my
truck. Then I realized it was just Eric. I started walking again.
"Hey, Eric," I called.
"Hi, Bella."
"What's up?" I said as I was unlocking the door. I wasn't paying attention to the uncomfortable edge in
his voice, so his next words took me by surprise.
"Uh, I was just wondering... if you would go to the spring dance with me?" His voice broke on the last
word.
"I thought it was girls' choice," I said, too startled to be diplomatic.
"Well, yeah," he admitted, shamefaced.
I recovered my composure and tried to make my smile warm. "Thank you for asking me, but I'm going to
be in Seattle that day."
"Oh," he said. "Well, maybe next time."
"Sure," I agreed, and then bit my lip. I wouldn't want him to take that too literally.
He slouched off, back toward the school. I heard a low chuckle.
Edward was walking past the front of my truck, looking straight forward, his lips pressed together. I
yanked the door open and jumped inside, slamming it loudly behind me. I revved the engine deafeningly
and reversed out into the aisle. Edward was in his car already, two spaces down, sliding out smoothly in
front of me, cutting me off. He stopped there — to wait for his family; I could see the four of them
walking this way, but still by the cafeteria. I considered taking out the rear of his shiny Volvo, but there
were too many witnesses. I looked in my rearview mirror. A line was beginning to form. Directly behind
me, Tyler Crowley was in his recently acquired used Sentra, waving. I was too aggravated toacknowledge him.
While I was sitting there, looking everywhere but at the car in front of me, I heard a knock on my
passenger side window. I looked over; it was Tyler. I glanced back in my rearview mirror, confused. His
car was still running, the door left open. I leaned across the cab to crank the window down. It was stiff. I
got it halfway down, then gave up.
"I'm sorry, Tyler, I'm stuck behind Cullen." I was annoyed — obviously the holdup wasn't my fault.
"Oh, I know — I just wanted to ask you something while we're trapped here." He grinned.
This could not be happening.
"Will you ask me to the spring dance?" he continued.
"I'm not going to be in town, Tyler." My voice sounded a little sharp. I had to remember it wasn't his fault
that Mike and Eric had already used up my quota of patience for the day.
"Yeah, Mike said that," he admitted.
"Then why —"
He shrugged. "I was hoping you were just letting him down easy."
Okay, it was completely his fault.
"Sorry, Tyler," I said, working to hide my irritation. "I really am going out of town."
"That's cool. We still have prom."
And before I could respond, he was walking back to his car. I could feel the shock on my face. I looked
forward to see Alice, Rosalie, Emmett, and Jasper all sliding into the Volvo. In his rearview mirror,
Edward's eyes were on me. He was unquestionably shaking with laughter, as if he'd heard every word
Tyler had said. My foot itched toward the gas pedal... one little bump wouldn't hurt any of them, just that
glossy silver paint job. I revved the engine.
But they were all in, and Edward was speeding away. I drove home slowly, carefully, muttering to myself
the whole way.
When I got home, I decided to make chicken enchiladas for dinner. It was a long process, and it would
keep me busy. While I was simmering the onions and chilies, the phone rang. I was almost afraid to
answer it, but it might be Charlie or my mom.
It was Jessica, and she was jubilant; Mike had caught her after school to accept her invitation. I
celebrated with her briefly while I stirred. She had to go, she wanted to call Angela and Lauren to tell
them. I suggested — with casual innocence — that maybe Angela, the shy girl who had Biology with me,
could ask Eric. And Lauren, a standoffish girl who had always ignored me at the lunch table, could ask
Tyler; I'd heard he was still available. Jess thought that was a great idea. Now that she was sure of Mike,
she actually sounded sincere when she said she wished I would go to the dance. I gave her my Seattle
excuse.
After I hung up, I tried to concentrate on dinner — dicing the chicken especially; I didn't want to take
another trip to the emergency room. But my head was spinning, trying to analyze every word Edward
had spoken today. What did he mean, it was better if we weren't friends?My stomach twisted as I realized what he must have meant. He must see how absorbed I was by him; he
must not want to lead me on... so we couldn't even be friends... because he wasn't interested in me at
all.
Of course he wasn't interested in me, I thought angrily, my eyes stinging — a delayed reaction to the
onions. I wasn't interesting. And he was. Interesting... and brilliant... and mysterious... and perfect...
and beautiful... and possibly able to lift full-sized vans with one hand.
Well, that was fine. I could leave him alone. I would leave him alone. I would get through my
self-imposed sentence here in purgatory, and then hopefully some school in the Southwest, or possibly
Hawaii, would offer me a scholarship. I focused my thoughts on sunny beaches and palm trees as I
finished the enchiladas and put them in the oven.
Charlie seemed suspicious when he came home and smelled the green peppers. I couldn't blame him —
the closest edible Mexican food was probably in southern California. But he was a cop, even if just a
small-town cop, so he was brave enough to take the first bite. He seemed to like it. It was fun to watch
as he slowly began trusting me in the kitchen.
"Dad?" I asked when he was almost done.
"Yeah, Bella?"
"Um, I just wanted to let you know that I'm going to Seattle for the day a week from Saturday... if that's
okay?" I didn't want to ask permission — it set a bad precedent — but I felt rude, so I tacked it on at
the end.
"Why?" He sounded surprised, as if he were unable to imagine something that Forks couldn't offer.
"Well, I wanted to get few books — the library here is pretty limited — and maybe look at some
clothes." I had more money than I was used to having, since, thanks to Charlie, I hadn't had to pay for a
car. Not that the truck didn't cost me quite a bit in the gas department.
"That truck probably doesn't get very good gas mileage," he said, echoing my thoughts.
"I know, I'll stop in Montesano and Olympia — and Tacoma if I have to."
"Are you going all by yourself?" he asked, and I couldn't tell if he was suspicious I had a secret boyfriend
or just worried about car trouble.
"Yes."
"Seattle is a big city — you could get lost," he fretted.
"Dad, Phoenix is five times the size of Seattle — and I can read a map, don't worry about it."
"Do you want me to come with you?"
I tried to be crafty as I hid my horror.
"That's all right, Dad, I'll probably just be in dressing rooms all day — very boring."
"Oh, okay." The thought of sitting in women's clothing stores for any period of time immediately put him
off.
"Thanks." I smiled at him."Will you be back in time for the dance?"
Grrr. Only in a town this small would a father know when the high school dances were.
"No — I don't dance, Dad." He, of all people, should understand that — I didn't get my balance
problems from my mother.
He did understand. "Oh, that's right," he realized.
The next morning, when I pulled into the parking lot, I deliberately parked as far as possible from the
silver Volvo. I didn't want to put myself in the path of too much temptation and end up owing him a new
car. Getting out of the cab, I fumbled with my key and it fell into a puddle at my feet. As I bent to get it, a
white hand flashed out and grabbed it before I could. I jerked upright. Edward Cullen was right next to
me, leaning casually against my truck.
"How do you do that?" I asked in amazed irritation.
"Do what?" He held my key out as he spoke. As I reached for it, he dropped it into my palm.
"Appear out of thin air."
"Bella, it's not my fault if you are exceptionally unobservant." His voice was quiet as usual — velvet,
muted.
I scowled at his perfect face. His eyes were light again today, a deep, golden honey color. Then I had to
look down, to reassemble my now-tangled thoughts.
"Why the traffic jam last night?" I demanded, still looking away. "I thought you were supposed to be
pretending I don't exist, not irritating me to death."
"That was for Tyler's sake, not mine. I had to give him his chance." He snickered.
"You..." I gasped. I couldn't think of a bad enough word. It felt like the heat of my anger should
physically burn him, but he only seemed more amused.
"And I'm not pretending you don't exist," he continued.
"So you are trying to irritate me to death? Since Tyler's van didn't do the job?"
Anger flashed in his tawny eyes. His lips pressed into a hard line, all signs of humor gone.
"Bella, you are utterly absurd," he said, his low voice cold.
My palms tingled — I wanted so badly to hit something. I was surprised at myself. I was usually a
nonviolent person. I turned my back and started to walk away.
"Wait," he called. I kept walking, sloshing angrily through the rain. But he was next to me, easily keeping
pace.
"I'm sorry, that was rude," he said as we walked. I ignored him. "I'm not saying it isn't true," he continued,
"but it was rude to say it, anyway."
"Why won't you leave me alone?" I grumbled.
"I wanted to ask you something, but you sidetracked me," he chuckled. He seemed to have recoveredhis good humor.
"Do you have a multiple personality disorder?" I asked severely.
"You're doing it again."
I sighed. "Fine then. What do you want to ask?"
"I was wondering if, a week from Saturday — you know, the day of the spring dance —"
"Are you trying to be funny?" I interrupted him, wheeling toward him. My face got drenched as I looked
up at his expression.
His eyes were wickedly amused. "Will you please allow me to finish?"
I bit my lip and clasped my hands together, interlocking my fingers, so I couldn't do anything rash.
"I heard you say you were going to Seattle that day, and I was wondering if you wanted a ride."
That was unexpected.
"What?" I wasn't sure what he was getting at.
"Do you want a ride to Seattle?"
"With who?" I asked, mystified.
"Myself, obviously." He enunciated every syllable, as if he were talking to someone mentally
handicapped.
I was still stunned. "Why?"
"Well, I was planning to go to Seattle in the next few weeks, and, to be honest, I'm not sure if your truck
can make it."
"My truck works just fine, thank you very much for your concern." I started to walk again, but I was too
surprised to maintain the same level of anger.
"But can your truck make it there on one tank of gas?" He matched my pace again.
"I don't see how that is any of your business." Stupid, shiny Volvo owner.
"The wasting of finite resources is everyone's business."
"Honestly, Edward." I felt a thrill go through me as I said his name, and I hated it. "I can't keep up with
you. I thought you didn't want to be my friend."
"I said it would be better if we weren't friends, not that I didn't want to be."
"Oh, thanks, now that's all cleared up." Heavy sarcasm. I realized I had stopped walking again. We
were under the shelter of the cafeteria roof now, so I could more easily look at his face. Which certainly
didn't help my clarity of thought.
"It would be more... prudent for you not to be my friend," he explained. "But I'm tired of trying to stay
away from you, Bella."His eyes were gloriously intense as he uttered that last sentence, his voice smoldering. I couldn't
remember how to breathe.
"Will you go with me to Seattle?" he asked, still intense.
I couldn't speak yet, so I just nodded.
He smiled briefly, and then his face became serious.
"You really should stay away from me," he warned. "I'll see you in class."
He turned abruptly and walked back the way we'd come.
5. BLOOD TYPE
I made my way to English in a daze. I didn't even realize when I first walked in that class had already
started.
"Thank you for joining us, Miss Swan," Mr. Mason said in a disparaging tone.
I flushed and hurried to my seat.
It wasn't till class ended that I realized Mike wasn't sitting in his usual seat next to me. I felt a twinge of
guilt. But he and Eric both met me at the door as usual, so I figured I wasn't totally unforgiven. Mike
seemed to become more himself as we walked, gaining enthusiasm as he talked about the weather report
for this weekend. The rain was supposed to take a minor break, and so maybe his beach trip would be
possible. I tried to sound eager, to make up for disappointing him yesterday. It was hard; rain or no rain,
it would still only be in the high forties, if we were lucky.
The rest of the morning passed in a blur. It was difficult to believe that I hadn't just imagined what
Edward had said, and the way his eyes had looked. Maybe it was just a very convincing dream that I'd
confused with reality. That seemed more probable than that I really appealed to him on any level.
So I was impatient and frightened as Jessica and I entered the cafeteria. I wanted to see his face, to see if
he'd gone back to the cold, indifferent person I'd known for the last several weeks. Or if, by some
miracle, I'd really heard what I thought I'd heard this morning. Jessica babbled on and on about her
dance plans — Lauren and Angela had asked the other boys and they were all going together —
completely unaware of my inattention.
Disappointment flooded through me as my eyes unerringly focused on his table. The other four were
there, but he was absent. Had he gone home? I followed the still-babbling Jessica through the line,
crushed. I'd lost my appetite — I bought nothing but a bottle of lemonade. I just wanted to go sit down
and sulk.
"Edward Cullen is staring at you again," Jessica said, finally breaking through my abstraction with his
name. "I wonder why he's sitting alone today."
My head snapped up. I followed her gaze to see Edward, smiling crookedly, staring at me from an empty
table across the cafeteria from where he usually sat. Once he'd caught my eye, he raised one hand and
motioned with his index finger for me to join him. As I stared in disbelief, he winked."Does he mean you?" Jessica asked with insulting astonishment in her voice.
"Maybe he needs help with his Biology homework," I muttered for her benefit. "Um, I'd better go see
what he wants."
I could feel her staring after me as I walked away.
When I reached his table, I stood behind the chair across from him, unsure.
"Why don't you sit with me today?" he asked, smiling.
I sat down automatically, watching him with caution. He was still smiling. It was hard to believe that
someone so beautiful could be real. I was afraid that he might disappear in a sudden puff of smoke, and I
would wake up.
He seemed to be waiting for me to say something.
"This is different," I finally managed.
"Well..." He paused, and then the rest of the words followed in a rush. "I decided as long as I was going
to hell, I might as well do it thoroughly."
I waited for him to say something that made sense. The seconds ticked by.
"You know I don't have any idea what you mean," I eventually pointed out.
"I know." He smiled again, and then he changed the subject. "I think your friends are angry with me for
stealing you."
"They'll survive." I could feel their stares boring into my back.
"I may not give you back, though," he said with a wicked glint in his eyes.
I gulped.
He laughed. "You look worried."
"No," I said, but, ridiculously, my voice broke. "Surprised, actually... what brought all this on?"
"I told you — I got tired of trying to stay away from you. So I'm giving up." He was still smiling, but his
ocher eyes were serious.
"Giving up?" I repeated in confusion.
"Yes — giving up trying to be good. I'm just going to do what I want now, and let the chips fall where
they may." His smile faded as he explained, and a hard edge crept into his voice.
"You lost me again."
The breathtaking crooked smile reappeared.
"I always say too much when I'm talking to you — that's one of the problems."
"Don't worry — I don't understand any of it," I said wryly.
"I'm counting on that.""So, in plain English, are we friends now?"
"Friends..." he mused, dubious.
"Or not," I muttered.
He grinned. "Well, we can try, I suppose. But I'm warning you now that I'm not a good friend for you."
Behind his smile, the warning was real.
"You say that a lot," I noted, trying to ignore the sudden trembling in my stomach and keep my voice
even.
"Yes, because you're not listening to me. I'm still waiting for you to believe it. If you're smart, you'll avoid
me."
"I think you've made your opinion on the subject of my intellect clear, too." My eyes narrowed.
He smiled apologetically.
"So, as long as I'm being... not smart, we'll try to be friends?" I struggled to sum up the confusing
exchange.
"That sounds about right."
I looked down at my hands wrapped around the lemonade bottle, not sure what to do now.
"What are you thinking?" he asked curiously.
I looked up into his deep gold eyes, became befuddled, and, as usual, blurted out the truth.
"I'm trying to figure out what you are."
His jaw tightened, but he kept his smile in place with some effort.
"Are you having any luck with that?" he asked in an offhand tone.
"Not too much," I admitted.
He chuckled. "What are your theories?"
I blushed. I had been vacillating during the last month between Bruce Wayne and Peter Parker. There
was no way I was going to own up to that.
"Won't you tell me?" he asked, tilting his head to one side with a shockingly tempting smile.
I shook my head. "Too embarrassing."
"That's really frustrating, you know," he complained.
"No," I disagreed quickly, my eyes narrowing, "I can't imagine why that would be frustrating at all —
just because someone refuses to tell you what they're thinking, even if all the while they're making cryptic
little remarks specifically designed to keep you up at night wondering what they could possibly mean...
now, why would that be frustrating?"
He grimaced."Or better," I continued, the pent-up annoyance flowing freely now, "say that person also did a wide
range of bizarre things — from saving your life under impossible circumstances one day to treating you
like a pariah the next, and he never explained any of that, either, even after he promised. That, also,
would be very non-frustrating."
"You've got a bit of a temper, don't you?"
"I don't like double standards."
We stared at each other, unsmiling.
He glanced over my shoulder, and then, unexpectedly, he snickered.
"What?"
"Your boyfriend seems to think I'm being unpleasant to you — he's debating whether or not to come
break up our fight." He snickered again.
"I don't know who you're talking about," I said frostily. "But I'm sure you're wrong, anyway."
"I'm not. I told you, most people are easy to read."
"Except me, of course."
"Yes. Except for you." His mood shifted suddenly; his eyes turned brooding. "I wonder why that is."
I had to look away from the intensity of his stare. I concentrated on unscrewing the lid of my lemonade. I
took a swig, staring at the table without seeing it.
"Aren't you hungry?" he asked, distracted.
"No." I didn't feel like mentioning that my stomach was already full — of butterflies. "You?" I looked at
the empty table in front of him.
"No, I'm not hungry." I didn't understand his expression — it looked like he was enjoying some private
joke.
"Can you do me a favor?" I asked after a second of hesitation.
He was suddenly wary. "That depends on what you want."
"It's not much," I assured him.
He waited, guarded but curious.
"I just wondered... if you could warn me beforehand the next time you decide to ignore me for my own
good. Just so I'm prepared." I looked at the lemonade bottle as I spoke, tracing the circle of the opening
with my pinkie finger.
"That sounds fair." He was pressing his lips together to keep from laughing when I looked up.
"Thanks."
"Then can I have one answer in return?" he demanded.
"One.""Tell me one theory."
Whoops. "Not that one."
"You didn't qualify, you just promised one answer," he reminded me.
"And you've broken promises yourself," I reminded him back.
"Just one theory — I won't laugh."
"Yes, you will." I was positive about that.
He looked down, and then glanced up at me through his long black lashes, his ocher eyes scorching.
"Please?" he breathed, leaning toward me.
I blinked, my mind going blank. Holy crow, how did he do that?
"Er, what?" I asked, dazed.
"Please tell me just one little theory." His eyes still smoldered at me.
"Um, well, bitten by a radioactive spider?" Was he a hypnotist, too? Or was I just a hopeless pushover?
"That's not very creative," he scoffed.
"I'm sorry, that's all I've got," I said, miffed.
"You're not even close," he teased.
"No spiders?"
"Nope."
"And no radioactivity?"
"None."
"Dang," I sighed.
"Kryptonite doesn't bother me, either," he chuckled.
"You're not supposed to laugh, remember?"
He struggled to compose his face.
"I'll figure it out eventually," I warned him.
"I wish you wouldn't try." He was serious again.
"Because... ?"
"What if I'm not a superhero? What if I'm the bad guy?" He smiled playfully, but his eyes were
impenetrable.
"Oh," I said, as several things he'd hinted fell suddenly into place. "I see.""Do you?" His face was abruptly severe, as if he were afraid that he'd accidentally said too much.
"You're dangerous?" I guessed, my pulse quickening as I intuitively realized the truth of my own words.
He was dangerous. He'd been trying to tell me that all along.
He just looked at me, eyes full of some emotion I couldn't comprehend.
"But not bad," I whispered, shaking my head. "No, I don't believe that you're bad."
"You're wrong." His voice was almost inaudible. He looked down, stealing my bottle lid and then
spinning it on its side between his fingers. I stared at him, wondering why I didn't feel afraid. He meant
what he was saying — that was obvious. But I just felt anxious, on edge... and, more than anything else,
fascinated. The same way I always felt when I was near him.
The silence lasted until I noticed that the cafeteria was almost empty.
I jumped to my feet. "We're going to be late."
"I'm not going to class today," he said, twirling the lid so fast it was just a blur.
"Why not?"
"It's healthy to ditch class now and then." He smiled up at me, but his eyes were still troubled.
"Well, I'm going," I told him. I was far too big a coward to risk getting caught.
He turned his attention back to his makeshift top. "I'll see you later, then."
I hesitated, torn, but then the first bell sent me hurrying out the door — with a last glance confirming that
he hadn't moved a centimeter.
As I half-ran to class, my head was spinning faster than the bottle cap. So few questions had been
answered in comparison to how many new questions had been raised. At least the rain had stopped.
I was lucky; Mr. Banner wasn't in the room yet when I arrived. I settled quickly into my seat, aware that
both Mike and Angela were staring at me. Mike looked resentful; Angela looked surprised, and slightly
awed.
Mr. Banner came in the room then, calling the class to order. He was juggling a few small cardboard
boxes in his arms. He put them down on Mike's table, telling him to start passing them around the class.
"Okay, guys, I want you all to take one piece from each box," he said as he produced a pair of rubber
gloves from the pocket of his lab jacket and pulled them on. The sharp sound as the gloves snapped into
place against his wrists seemed ominous to me. "The first should be an indicator card," he went on,
grabbing a white card with four squares marked on it and displaying it. "The second is a four-pronged
applicator —" he held up something that looked like a nearly toothless hair pick "— and the third is a
sterile micro-lancet." He held up a small piece of blue plastic and split it open. The barb was invisible
from this distance, but my stomach flipped.
"I'll be coming around with a dropper of water to prepare your cards, so please don't start until I get to
you." He began at Mike's table again, carefully putting one drop of water in each of the four squares.
"Then I want you to carefully prick your finger with the lancet..." He grabbed Mike's hand and jabbed
the spike into the tip of Mike's middle finger. Oh no. Clammy moisture broke out across my forehead.
"Put a small drop of blood on each of the prongs." He demonstrated, squeezing Mike's finger till theblood flowed. I swallowed convulsively, my stomach heaving.
"And then apply it to the card," he finished, holding up the dripping red card for us to see. I closed my
eyes, trying to hear through the ringing in my ears.
"The Red Cross is having a blood drive in Port Angeles next weekend, so I thought you should all know
your blood type." He sounded proud of himself. "Those of you who aren't eighteen yet will need a
parent's permission — I have slips at my desk."
He continued through the room with his water drops. I put my cheek against the cool black tabletop and
tried to hold on to my consciousness. All around me I could hear squeals, complaints, and giggles as my
classmates skewered their fingers. I breathed slowly in and out through my mouth.
"Bella, are you all right?" Mr. Banner asked. His voice was close to my head, and it sounded alarmed.
"I already know my blood type, Mr. Banner," I said in a weak voice. I was afraid to raise my head.
"Are you feeling faint?"
"Yes, sir," I muttered, internally kicking myself for not ditching when I had the chance.
"Can someone take Bella to the nurse, please?" he called.
I didn't have to look up to know that it would be Mike who volunteered.
"Can you walk?" Mr. Banner asked.
"Yes," I whispered. Just let me get out of here, I thought. I'll crawl.
Mike seemed eager as he put his arm around my waist and pulled my arm over his shoulder. I leaned
against him heavily on the way out of the classroom.
Mike towed me slowly across campus. When we were around the edge of the cafeteria, out of sight of
building four in case Mr. Banner was watching, I stopped.
"Just let me sit for a minute, please?" I begged.
He helped me sit on the edge of the walk.
"And whatever you do, keep your hand in your pocket," I warned. I was still so dizzy. I slumped over on
my side, putting my cheek against the freezing, damp cement of the sidewalk, closing my eyes. That
seemed to help a little.
"Wow, you're green, Bella," Mike said nervously.
"Bella?" a different voice called from the distance.
No! Please let me be imagining that horribly familiar voice.
"What's wrong — is she hurt?" His voice was closer now, and he sounded upset. I wasn't imagining it. I
squeezed my eyes shut, hoping to die. Or, at the very least, not to throw up.
Mike seemed stressed. "I think she's fainted. I don't know what happened, she didn't even stick her
finger."
"Bella." Edward's voice was right beside me, relieved now. "Can you hear me?""No," I groaned. "Go away."
He chuckled.
"I was taking her to the nurse," Mike explained in a defensive tone, "but she wouldn't go any farther."
"I'll take her," Edward said. I could hear the smile still in his voice. "You can go back to class."
"No," Mike protested. "I'm supposed to do it."
Suddenly the sidewalk disappeared from beneath me. My eyes flew open in shock. Edward had
scooped me up in his arms, as easily as if I weighed ten pounds instead of a hundred and ten.
"Put me down!" Please, please let me not vomit on him. He was walking before I was finished talking.
"Hey!" Mike called, already ten paces behind us.
Edward ignored him. "You look awful," he told me, grinning.
"Put me back on the sidewalk," I moaned. The rocking movement of his walk was not helping. He held
me away from his body, gingerly, supporting all my weight with just his arms — it didn't seem to bother
him.
"So you faint at the sight of blood?" he asked. This seemed to entertain him.
I didn't answer. I closed my eyes again and fought the nausea with all my strength, clamping my lips
together.
"And not even your own blood," he continued, enjoying himself.
I don't know how he opened the door while carrying me, but it was suddenly warm, so I knew we were
inside.
"Oh my," I heard a female voice gasp.
"She fainted in Biology," Edward explained.
I opened my eyes. I was in the office, and Edward was striding past the front counter toward the nurse's
door. Ms. Cope, the redheaded front office receptionist, ran ahead of him to hold it open. The
grandmotherly nurse looked up from a novel, astonished, as Edward swung me into the room and placed
me gently on the crackly paper that covered the brown vinyl mattress on the one cot. Then he moved to
stand against the wall as far across the narrow room as possible. His eyes were bright, excited.
"She's just a little faint," he reassured the startled nurse. "They're blood typing in Biology."
The nurse nodded sagely. "There's always one."
He muffled a snicker.
"Just lie down for a minute, honey; it'll pass."
"I know," I sighed. The nausea was already fading.
"Does this happen a lot?" she asked.
"Sometimes," I admitted. Edward coughed to hide another laugh."You can go back to class now," she told him.
"I'm supposed to stay with her." He said this with such assured authority that — even though she pursed
her lips — the nurse didn't argue it further.
"I'll go get you some ice for your forehead, dear," she said to me, and then bustled out of the room.
"You were right," I moaned, letting my eyes close.
"I usually am — but about what in particular this time?"
"Ditching is healthy." I practiced breathing evenly.
"You scared me for a minute there," he admitted after a pause. His tone made it sound like he was
confessing a humiliating weakness. "I thought Newton was dragging your dead body off to bury it in the
woods."
"Ha ha." I still had my eyes closed, but I was feeling more normal every minute.
"Honestly — I've seen corpses with better color. I was concerned that I might have to avenge your
murder."
"Poor Mike. I'll bet he's mad."
"He absolutely loathes me," Edward said cheerfully.
"You can't know that," I argued, but then I wondered suddenly if he could.
"I saw his face — I could tell."
"How did you see me? I thought you were ditching." I was almost fine now, though the queasiness would
probably pass faster if I'd eaten something for lunch. On the other hand, maybe it was lucky my stomach
was empty.
"I was in my car, listening to a CD." Such a normal response — it surprised me.
I heard the door and opened my eyes to see the nurse with a cold compress in her hand.
"Here you go, dear." She laid it across my forehead. "You're looking better," she added.
"I think I'm fine," I said, sitting up. Just a little ringing in my ears, no spinning. The mint green walls stayed
where they should.
I could see she was about to make me lie back down, but the door opened just then, and Ms. Cope
stuck her head in.
"We've got another one," she warned.
I hopped down to free up the cot for the next invalid.
I handed the compress back to the nurse. "Here, I don't need this."
And then Mike staggered through the door, now supporting a sallow-looking Lee Stephens, another boy
in our Biology class. Edward and I drew back against the wall to give them room.
"Oh no," Edward muttered. "Go out to the office, Bella."I looked up at him, bewildered.
"Trust me — go."
I spun and caught the door before it closed, darting out of the infirmary. I could feel Edward right behind
me.
"You actually listened to me." He was stunned.
"I smelled the blood," I said, wrinkling my nose. Lee wasn't sick from watching other people, like me.
"People can't smell blood," he contradicted.
"Well, I can — that's what makes me sick. It smells like rust... and salt."
He was staring at me with an unfathomable expression.
"What?" I asked.
"It's nothing."
Mike came through the door then, glancing from me to Edward. The look he gave Edward confirmed
what Edward had said about loathing. He looked back at me, his eyes glum.
"You look better," he accused.
"Just keep your hand in your pocket," I warned him again.
"It's not bleeding anymore," he muttered. "Are you going back to class?"
"Are you kidding? I'd just have to turn around and come back."
"Yeah, I guess... So are you going this weekend? To the beach?" While he spoke, he flashed another
glare toward Edward, who was standing against the cluttered counter, motionless as a sculpture, staring
off into space.
I tried to sound as friendly as possible. "Sure, I said I was in."
"We're meeting at my dad's store, at ten." His eyes flickered to Edward again, wondering if he was giving
out too much information. His body language made it clear that it wasn't an open invitation.
"I'll be there," I promised.
"I'll see you in Gym, then," he said, moving uncertainly toward the door.
"See you," I replied. He looked at me once more, his round face slightly pouting, and then as he walked
slowly through the door, his shoulders slumped. A swell of sympathy washed over me. I pondered seeing
his disappointed face again... in Gym.
"Gym," I groaned.
"I can take care of that." I hadn't noticed Edward moving to my side, but he spoke now in my ear. "Go
sit down and look pale," he muttered.
That wasn't a challenge; I was always pale, and my recent swoon had left a light sheen of sweat on my
face. I sat in one of the creaky folding chairs and rested my head against the wall with my eyes closed.Fainting spells always exhausted me.
I heard Edward speaking softly at the counter.
"Ms. Cope?"
"Yes?" I hadn't heard her return to her desk.
"Bella has Gym next hour, and I don't think she feels well enough. Actually, I was thinking I should take
her home now. Do you think you could excuse her from class?" His voice was like melting honey. I could
imagine how much more overwhelming his eyes would be.
"Do you need to be excused, too, Edward?" Ms. Cope fluttered. Why couldn't I do that?
"No, I have Mrs. Goff, she won't mind."
"Okay, it's all taken care of. You feel better, Bella," she called to me. I nodded weakly, hamming it up
just a bit.
"Can you walk, or do you want me to carry you again?" With his back to the receptionist, his expression
became sarcastic.
"I'll walk."
I stood carefully, and I was still fine. He held the door for me, his smile polite but his eyes mocking. I
walked out into the cold, fine mist that had just begun to fall. It felt nice — the first time I'd enjoyed the
constant moisture falling out of the sky — as it washed my face clean of the sticky perspiration.
"Thanks," I said as he followed me out. "It's almost worth getting sick to miss Gym."
"Anytime." He was staring straight forward, squinting into the rain.
"So are you going? This Saturday, I mean?" I was hoping he would, though it seemed unlikely. I couldn't
picture him loading up to carpool with the rest of the kids from school; he didn't belong in the same
world. But just hoping that he might gave me the first twinge of enthusiasm I'd felt for the outing.
"Where are you all going, exactly?" He was still looking ahead, expressionless.
"Down to La Push, to First Beach." I studied his face, trying to read it. His eyes seemed to narrow
infinitesimally.
He glanced down at me from the corner of his eye, smiling wryly. "I really don't think I was invited."
I sighed. "I just invited you."
"Let's you and I not push poor Mike any further this week. We don't want him to snap." His eyes
danced; he was enjoying the idea more than he should.
"Mike-schmike." I muttered, preoccupied by the way he'd said "you and I." I liked it more than I should.
We were near the parking lot now. I veered left, toward my truck. Something caught my jacket, yanking
me back.
"Where do you think you're going?" he asked, outraged. He was gripping a fistful of my jacket in one
hand.I was confused. "I'm going home."
"Didn't you hear me promise to take you safely home? Do you think I'm going to let you drive in your
condition?" His voice was still indignant.
"What condition? And what about my truck?" I complained.
"I'll have Alice drop it off after school." He was towing me toward his car now, pulling me by my jacket.
It was all I could do to keep from falling backward. He'd probably just drag me along anyway if I did.
"Let go!" I insisted. He ignored me. I staggered along sideways across the wet sidewalk until we reached
the Volvo. Then he finally freed me — I stumbled against the passenger door.
"You are so pushy!" I grumbled.
"It's open," was all he responded. He got in the driver's side.
"I am perfectly capable of driving myself home!" I stood by the car, fuming. It was raining harder now,
and I'd never put my hood up, so my hair was dripping down my back.
He lowered the automatic window and leaned toward me across the seat. "Get in, Bella."
I didn't answer. I was mentally calculating my chances of reaching the truck before he could catch me. I
had to admit, they weren't good.
"I'll just drag you back," he threatened, guessing my plan.
I tried to maintain what dignity I could as I got into his car. I wasn't very successful — I looked like a
half-drowned cat and my boots squeaked.
"This is completely unnecessary," I said stiffly.
He didn't answer. He fiddled with the controls, turning the heater up and the music down. As he pulled
out of the parking lot, I was preparing to give him the silent treatment — my face in full pout mode — but
then I recognized the music playing, and my curiosity got the better of my intentions.
"Clair de Lune?" I asked, surprised.
"You know Debussy?" He sounded surprised, too.
"Not well," I admitted. "My mother plays a lot of classical music around the house — I only know my
favorites."
"It's one of my favorites, too." He stared out through the rain, lost in thought.
I listened to the music, relaxing against the light gray leather seat. It was impossible not to respond to the
familiar, soothing melody. The rain blurred everything outside the window into gray and green smudges. I
began to realize we were driving very fast; the car moved so steadily, so evenly, though, I didn't feel the
speed. Only the town flashing by gave it away.
"What is your mother like?" he asked me suddenly.
I glanced over to see him studying me with curious eyes.
"She looks a lot like me, but she's prettier," I said. He raised his eyebrows. "I have too much Charlie inme. She's more outgoing than I am, and braver. She's irresponsible and slightly eccentric, and she's a
very unpredictable cook. She's my best friend." I stopped. Talking about her was making me depressed.
"How old are you, Bella?" His voice sounded frustrated for some reason I couldn't imagine. He'd
stopped the car, and I realized we were at Charlie's house already. The rain was so heavy that I could
barely see the house at all. It was like the car was submerged under a river.
"I'm seventeen," I responded, a little confused.
"You don't seem seventeen."
His tone was reproachful; it made me laugh.
"What?" he asked, curious again.
"My mom always says I was born thirty-five years old and that I get more middle-aged every year." I
laughed, and then sighed. "Well, someone has to be the adult." I paused for a second. "You don't seem
much like a junior in high school yourself," I noted.
He made a face and changed the subject.
"So why did your mother marry Phil?"
I was surprised he would remember the name; I'd mentioned it just once, almost two months ago. It took
me a moment to answer.
"My mother... she's very young for her age. I think Phil makes her feel even younger. At any rate, she's
crazy about him." I shook my head. The attraction was a mystery to me.
"Do you approve?" he asked.
"Does it matter?" I countered. "I want her to be happy... and he is who she wants."
"That's very generous... I wonder," he mused.
"What?"
"Would she extend the same courtesy to you, do you think? No matter who your choice was?" He was
suddenly intent, his eyes searching mine.
"I-I think so," I stuttered. "But she's the parent, after all. It's a little bit different."
"No one too scary then," he teased.
I grinned in response. "What do you mean by scary? Multiple facial piercings and extensive tattoos?"
"That's one definition, I suppose."
"What's your definition?"
But he ignored my question and asked me another. "Do you think that I could be scary?" He raised one
eyebrow, and the faint trace of a smile lightened his face.
I thought for a moment, wondering whether the truth or a lie would go over better. I decided to go with
the truth. "Hmmm... I think you could be, if you wanted to.""Are you frightened of me now?" The smile vanished, and his heavenly face was suddenly serious.
"No." But I answered too quickly. The smile returned.
"So, now are you going to tell me about your family?" I asked to distract him. "It's got to be a much more
interesting story than mine."
He was instantly cautious. "What do you want to know?"
"The Cullens adopted you?" I verified.
"Yes."
I hesitated for a moment. "What happened to your parents?"
"They died many years ago." His tone was matter-of-fact.
"I'm sorry," I mumbled.
"I don't really remember them that clearly. Carlisle and Esme have been my parents for a long time now."
"And you love them." It wasn't a question. It was obvious in the way he spoke of them.
"Yes." He smiled. "I couldn't imagine two better people."
"You're very lucky."
"I know I am."
"And your brother and sister?"
He glanced at the clock on the dashboard.
"My brother and sister, and Jasper and Rosalie for that matter, are going to be quite upset if they have to
stand in the rain waiting for me."
"Oh, sorry, I guess you have to go." I didn't want to get out of the car.
"And you probably want your truck back before Chief Swan gets home, so you don't have to tell him
about the Biology incident." He grinned at me.
"I'm sure he's already heard. There are no secrets in Forks." I sighed.
He laughed, and there was an edge to his laughter.
"Have fun at the beach... good weather for sunbathing." He glanced out at the sheeting rain.
"Won't I see you tomorrow?"
"No. Emmett and I are starting the weekend early."
"What are you going to do?" A friend could ask that, right? I hoped the disappointment wasn't too
apparent in my voice.
"We're going to be hiking in the Goat Rocks Wilderness, just south of Rainier."
I remembered Charlie had said the Cullens went camping frequently."Oh, well, have fun." I tried to sound enthusiastic. I don't think I fooled him, though. A smile was playing
around the edges of his lips.
"Will you do something for me this weekend?" He turned to look me straight in the face, utilizing the full
power of his burning gold eyes.
I nodded helplessly.
"Don't be offended, but you seem to be one of those people who just attract accidents like a magnet.
So... try not to fall into the ocean or get run over or anything, all right?" He smiled crookedly.
The helplessness had faded as he spoke. I glared at him.
"I'll see what I can do," I snapped as I jumped out into the rain. I slammed the door behind me with
excessive force.
He was still smiling as he drove away.
6. SCARY STORIES
As I sat in my room, trying to concentrate on the third act of Macbeth, I was really listening for my truck.
I would have thought, even over the pounding rain, I could have heard the engine's roar. But when I went
to peek out the curtain — again — it was suddenly there.
I wasn't looking forward to Friday, and it more than lived up to my non-expectations. Of course there
were the fainting comments. Jessica especially seemed to get a kick out of that story. Luckily Mike had
kept his mouth shut, and no one seemed to know about Edward's involvement. She did have a lot of
questions about lunch, though.
"So what did Edward Cullen want yesterday?" Jessica asked in Trig.
"I don't know," I answered truthfully. "He never really got to the point."
"You looked kind of mad," she fished.
"Did I?" I kept my expression blank.
"You know, I've never seen him sit with anyone but his family before. That was weird."
"Weird," I agreed. She seemed annoyed; she flipped her dark curls impatiently — I guessed she'd been
hoping to hear something that would make a good story for her to pass on.
The worst part about Friday was that, even though I knew he wasn't going to be there, I still hoped.
When I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica and Mike, I couldn't keep from looking at his table, where
Rosalie, Alice, and Jasper sat talking, heads close together. And I couldn't stop the gloom that engulfed
me as I realized I didn't know how long I would have to wait before I saw him again.
At my usual table, everyone was full of our plans for the next day. Mike was animated again, putting a
great deal of trust in the local weatherman who promised sun tomorrow. I'd have to see that before I
believed it. But it was warmer today — almost sixty. Maybe the outing wouldn't be completely
miserable.I intercepted a few unfriendly glances from Lauren during lunch, which I didn't understand until we were
all walking out of the room together. I was right behind her, just a foot from her slick, silver blond hair,
and she was evidently unaware of that.
"...don't know why Bella" — she sneered my name — "doesn't just sit with the Cullens from now on."
I heard her muttering to Mike. I'd never noticed what an unpleasant, nasal voice she had, and I was
surprised by the malice in it. I really didn't know her well at all, certainly not well enough for her to dislike
me — or so I'd thought. "She's my friend; she sits with us," Mike whispered back loyally, but also a bit
territorially. I paused to let Jess and Angela pass me. I didn't want to hear any more.
That night at dinner, Charlie seemed enthusiastic about my trip to La Push in the morning. I think he felt
guilty for leaving me home alone on the weekends, but he'd spent too many years building his habits to
break them now. Of course he knew the names of all the kids going, and their parents, and their
great-grandparents, too, probably. He seemed to approve. I wondered if he would approve of my plan
to ride to Seattle with Edward Cullen. Not that I was going to tell him.
"Dad, do you know a place called Goat Rocks or something like that? I think it's south of Mount
Rainier," I asked casually.
"Yeah — why?"
I shrugged. "Some kids were talking about camping there."
"It's not a very good place for camping." He sounded surprised. "Too many bears. Most people go there
during the hunting season."
"Oh," I murmured. "Maybe I got the name wrong."
I meant to sleep in, but an unusual brightness woke me. I opened my eyes to see a clear yellow light
streaming through my window. I couldn't believe it. I hurried to the window to check, and sure enough,
there was the sun. It was in the wrong place in the sky, too low, and it didn't seem to be as close as it
should be, but it was definitely the sun. Clouds ringed the horizon, but a large patch of blue was visible in
the middle. I lingered by the window as long as I could, afraid that if I left the blue would disappear
again.
The Newtons' Olympic Outfitters store was just north of town. I'd seen the store, but I'd never stopped
there — not having much need for any supplies required for being outdoors over an extended period of
time. In the parking lot I recognized Mike's Suburban and Tyler's Sentra. As I pulled up next to their
vehicles, I could see the group standing around in front of the Suburban. Eric was there, along with two
other boys I had class with; I was fairly sure their names were Ben and Conner. Jess was there, flanked
by Angela and Lauren. Three other girls stood with them, including one I remembered falling over in Gym
on Friday. That one gave me a dirty look as I got out of the truck, and whispered something to Lauren.
Lauren shook out her cornsilk hair and eyed me scornfully.
So it was going to be one of those days.
At least Mike was happy to see me.
"You came!" he called, delighted. "And I said it would be sunny today, didn't I?"
"I told you I was coming," I reminded him."We're just waiting for Lee and Samantha... unless you invited someone," Mike added.
"Nope," I lied lightly, hoping I wouldn't get caught in the lie. But also wishing that a miracle would occur,
and Edward would appear.
Mike looked satisfied.
"Will you ride in my car? It's that or Lee's mom's minivan."
"Sure."
He smiled blissfully. It was so easy to make Mike happy.
"You can have shotgun," he promised. I hid my chagrin. It wasn't as simple to make Mike and Jessica
happy at the same time. I could see Jessica glowering at us now.
The numbers worked out in my favor, though. Lee brought two extra people, and suddenly every seat
was necessary. I managed to wedge Jess in between Mike and me in the front seat of the Suburban.
Mike could have been more graceful about it, but at least Jess seemed appeased.
It was only fifteen miles to La Push from Forks, with gorgeous, dense green forests edging the road most
of the way and the wide Quillayute River snaking beneath it twice. I was glad I had the window seat.
We'd rolled the windows down — the Suburban was a bit claustrophobic with nine people in it — and I
tried to absorb as much sunlight as possible.
I'd been to the beaches around La Push many times during my Forks summers with Charlie, so the
mile-long crescent of First Beach was familiar to me. It was still breathtaking. The water was dark gray,
even in the sunlight, white-capped and heaving to the gray, rocky shore. Islands rose out of the steel
harbor waters with sheer cliff sides, reaching to uneven summits, and crowned with austere, soaring firs.
The beach had only a thin border of actual sand at the water's edge, after which it grew into millions of
large, smooth stones that looked uniformly gray from a distance, but close up were every shade a stone
could be: terra-cotta, sea green, lavender, blue gray, dull gold. The tide line was strewn with huge
driftwood trees, bleached bone white in the salt waves, some piled together against the edge of the forest
fringe, some lying solitary, just out of reach of the waves.
There was a brisk wind coming off the waves, cool and briny. Pelicans floated on the swells while
seagulls and a lone eagle wheeled above them. The clouds still circled the sky, threatening to invade at
any moment, but for now the sun shone bravely in its halo of blue sky.
We picked our way down to the beach, Mike leading the way to a ring of driftwood logs that had
obviously been used for parties like ours before. There was a fire circle already in place, filled with black
ashes. Eric and the boy I thought was named Ben gathered broken branches of driftwood from the drier
piles against the forest edge, and soon had a teepee-shaped construction built atop the old cinders.
"Have you ever seen a driftwood fire?" Mike asked me. I was sitting on one of the bone-colored
benches; the other girls clustered, gossiping excitedly, on either side of me. Mike kneeled by the fire,
lighting one of the smaller sticks with a cigarette lighter.
"No," I said as he placed the blazing twig carefully against the teepee.
"You'll like this then — watch the colors." He lit another small branch and laid it alongside the first. The
flames started to lick quickly up the dry wood.
"It's blue," I said in surprise."The salt does it. Pretty, isn't it?" He lit one more piece, placed it where the fire hadn't yet caught, and
then came to sit by me. Thankfully, Jess was on his other side. She turned to him and claimed his
attention. I watched the strange blue and green flames crackle toward the sky.
After a half hour of chatter, some of the boys wanted to hike to the nearby tidal pools. It was a dilemma.
On the one hand, I loved the tide pools. They had fascinated me since I was a child; they were one of the
only things I ever looked forward to when I had to come to Forks. On the other hand, I'd also fallen into
them a lot. Not a big deal when you're seven and with your dad. It reminded me of Edward's request —
that I not fall into the ocean.
Lauren was the one who made my decision for me. She didn't want to hike, and she was definitely
wearing the wrong shoes for it. Most of the other girls besides Angela and Jessica decided to stay on the
beach as well. I waited until Tyler and Eric had committed to remaining with them before I got up quietly
to join the pro-hiking group. Mike gave me a huge smile when he saw that I was coming.
The hike wasn't too long, though I hated to lose the sky in the woods. The green light of the forest was
strangely at odds with the adolescent laughter, too murky and ominous to be in harmony with the light
banter around me. I had to watch each step I took very carefully, avoiding roots below and branches
above, and I soon fell behind. Eventually I broke through the emerald confines of the forest and found the
rocky shore again. It was low tide, and a tidal river flowed past us on its way to the sea. Along its
pebbled banks, shallow pools that never completely drained were teeming with life.
I was very cautious not to lean too far over the little ocean ponds. The others were fearless, leaping over
the rocks, perching precariously on the edges. I found a very stable-looking rock on the fringe of one of
the largest pools and sat there cautiously, spellbound by the natural aquarium below me. The bouquets of
brilliant anemones undulated ceaselessly in the invisible current, twisted shells scurried about the edges,
obscuring the crabs within them, starfish stuck motionless to the rocks and each other, while one small
black eel with white racing stripes wove through the bright green weeds, waiting for the sea to return. I
was completely absorbed, except for one small part of my mind that wondered what Edward was doing
now, and trying to imagine what he would be saying if he were here with me.
Finally the boys were hungry, and I got up stiffly to follow them back. I tried to keep up better this time
through the woods, so naturally I fell a few times. I got some shallow scrapes on my palms, and the
knees of my jeans were stained green, but it could have been worse.
When we got back to First Beach, the group we'd left behind had multiplied. As we got closer we could
see the shining, straight black hair and copper skin of the newcomers, teenagers from the reservation
come to socialize.
The food was already being passed around, and the boys hurried to claim a share while Eric introduced
us as we each entered the driftwood circle. Angela and I were the last to arrive, and, as Eric said our
names, I noticed a younger boy sitting on the stones near the fire glance up at me in interest. I sat down
next to Angela, and Mike brought us sandwiches and an array of sodas to choose from, while a boy who
looked to be the oldest of the visitors rattled off the names of the seven others with him. All I caught was
that one of the girls was also named Jessica, and the boy who noticed me was named Jacob.
It was relaxing to sit with Angela; she was a restful kind of person to be around — she didn't feel the
need to fill every silence with chatter. She left me free to think undisturbed while we ate. And I was
thinking about how disjointedly time seemed to flow in Forks, passing in a blur at times, with single
images standing out more clearly than others. And then, at other times, every second was significant,
etched in my mind. I knew exactly what caused the difference, and it disturbed me.During lunch the clouds started to advance, slinking across the blue sky, darting in front of the sun
momentarily, casting long shadows across the beach, and blackening the waves. As they finished eating,
people started to drift away in twos and threes. Some walked down to the edge of the waves, trying to
skip rocks across the choppy surface. Others were gathering a second expedition to the tide pools. Mike
— with Jessica shadowing him — headed up to the one shop in the village. Some of the local kids went
with them; others went along on the hike. By the time they all had scattered, I was sitting alone on my
driftwood log, with Lauren and Tyler occupying themselves by the CD player someone had thought to
bring, and three teenagers from the reservation perched around the circle, including the boy named Jacob
and the oldest boy who had acted as spokesperson.
A few minutes after Angela left with the hikers, Jacob sauntered over to take her place by my side. He
looked fourteen, maybe fifteen, and had long, glossy black hair pulled back with a rubber band at the
nape of his neck. His skin was beautiful, silky and russet-colored; his eyes were dark, set deep above the
high planes of his cheekbones. He still had just a hint of childish roundness left around his chin.
Altogether, a very pretty face. However, my positive opinion of his looks was damaged by the first
words out of his mouth.
"You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?"
It was like the first day of school all over again.
"Bella," I sighed.
"I'm Jacob Black." He held his hand out in a friendly gesture. "You bought my dad's truck."
"Oh," I said, relieved, shaking his sleek hand. "You're Billy's son. I probably should remember you."
"No, I'm the youngest of the family — you would remember my older sisters."
"Rachel and Rebecca," I suddenly recalled. Charlie and Billy had thrown us together a lot during my
visits, to keep us busy while they fished. We were all too shy to make much progress as friends. Of
course, I'd kicked up enough tantrums to end the fishing trips by the time I was eleven.
"Are they here?" I examined the girls at the ocean's edge, wondering if I would recognize them now.
"No." Jacob shook his head. "Rachel got a scholarship to Washington State, and Rebecca married a
Samoan surfer — she lives in Hawaii now."
"Married. Wow." I was stunned. The twins were only a little over a year older than I was.
"So how do you like the truck?" he asked.
"I love it. It runs great."
"Yeah, but it's really slow," he laughed. "I was so relived when Charlie bought it. My dad wouldn't let me
work on building another car when we had a perfectly good vehicle right there."
"It's not that slow," I objected.
"Have you tried to go over sixty?"
"No," I admitted.
"Good. Don't." He grinned.I couldn't help grinning back. "It does great in a collision," I offered in my truck's defense.
"I don't think a tank could take out that old monster," he agreed with another laugh.
"So you build cars?" I asked, impressed.
"When I have free time, and parts. You wouldn't happen to know where I could get my hands on a
master cylinder for a 1986 Volkswagen Rabbit?" he added jokingly. He had a pleasant, husky voice.
"Sorry," I laughed, "I haven't seen any lately, but I'll keep my eyes open for you." As if I knew what that
was. He was very easy to talk with.
He flashed a brilliant smile, looking at me appreciatively in a way I was learning to recognize. I wasn't the
only one who noticed.
"You know Bella, Jacob?" Lauren asked — in what I imagined was an insolent tone — from across the
fire.
"We've sort of known each other since I was born," he laughed, smiling at me again.
"How nice." She didn't sound like she thought it was nice at all, and her pale, fishy eyes narrowed.
"Bella," she called again, watching my face carefully, "I was just saying to Tyler that it was too bad none
of the Cullens could come out today. Didn't anyone think to invite them?" Her expression of concern was
unconvincing.
"You mean Dr. Carlisle Cullen's family?" the tall, older boy asked before I could respond, much to
Lauren's irritation. He was really closer to a man than a boy, and his voice was very deep.
"Yes, do you know them?" she asked condescendingly, turning halfway toward him.
"The Cullens don't come here," he said in a tone that closed the subject, ignoring her question.
Tyler, trying to win back her attention, asked Lauren's opinion on a CD he held. She was distracted.
I stared at the deep-voiced boy, taken aback, but he was looking away toward the dark forest behind
us. He'd said that the Cullens didn't come here, but his tone had implied something more — that they
weren't allowed; they were prohibited. His manner left a strange impression on me, and I tried to ignore it
without success.
Jacob interrupted my meditation. "So is Forks driving you insane yet?"
"Oh, I'd say that's an understatement." I grimaced. He grinned understandingly.
I was still turning over the brief comment on the Cullens, and I had a sudden inspiration. It was a stupid
plan, but I didn't have any better ideas. I hoped that young Jacob was as yet inexperienced around girls,
so that he wouldn't see through my sure-to-be-pitiful attempts at flirting.
"Do you want to walk down the beach with me?" I asked, trying to imitate that way Edward had of
looking up from underneath his eyelashes. It couldn't have nearly the same effect, I was sure, but Jacob
jumped up willingly enough.
As we walked north across the multihued stones toward the driftwood seawall, the clouds finally closed
ranks across the sky, causing the sea to darken and the temperature to drop. I shoved my hands deep
into the pockets of my jacket."So you're, what, sixteen?" I asked, trying not to look like an idiot as I fluttered my eyelids the way I'd
seen girls do on TV.
"I just turned fifteen," he confessed, flattered.
"Really?" My face was full of false surprise. "I would have thought you were older."
"I'm tall for my age," he explained.
"Do you come up to Forks much?" I asked archly, as if I was hoping for a yes. I sounded idiotic to
myself. I was afraid he would turn on me with disgust and accuse me of my fraud, but he still seemed
flattered.
"Not too much," he admitted with a frown. "But when I get my car finished I can go up as much as I want
— after I get my license," he amended.
"Who was that other boy Lauren was talking to? He seemed a little old to be hanging out with us." I
purposefully lumped myself in with the youngsters, trying to make it clear that I preferred Jacob.
"That's Sam — he's nineteen," he informed me.
"What was that he was saying about the doctor's family?" I asked innocently.
"The Cullens? Oh, they're not supposed to come onto the reservation." He looked away, out toward
James Island, as he confirmed what I'd thought I'd heard in Sam's voice.
"Why not?"
He glanced back at me, biting his lip. "Oops. I'm not supposed to say anything about that."
"Oh, I won't tell anyone, I'm just curious." I tried to make my smile alluring, wondering if I was laying it
on too thick.
He smiled back, though, looking allured. Then he lifted one eyebrow and his voice was even huskier than
before.
"Do you like scary stories?" he asked ominously.
"I love them," I enthused, making an effort to smolder at him.
Jacob strolled to a nearby driftwood tree that had its roots sticking out like the attenuated legs of a huge,
pale spider. He perched lightly on one of the twisted roots while I sat beneath him on the body of the
tree. He stared down at the rocks, a smile hovering around the edges of his broad lips. I could see he
was going to try to make this good. I focused on keeping the vital interest I felt out of my eyes.
"Do you know any of our old stories, about where we came from — the Quileutes, I mean?" he began.
"Not really," I admitted.
"Well, there are lots of legends, some of them claiming to date back to the Flood — supposedly, the
ancient Quileutes tied their canoes to the tops of the tallest trees on the mountain to survive like Noah and
the ark." He smiled, to show me how little stock he put in the histories. "Another legend claims that we
descended from wolves — and that the wolves are our brothers still. It's against tribal law to kill them.
"Then there are the stories about the cold ones." His voice dropped a little lower."The cold ones?" I asked, not faking my intrigue now.
"Yes. There are stories of the cold ones as old as the wolf legends, and some much more recent.
According to legend, my own great-grandfather knew some of them. He was the one who made the
treaty that kept them off our land." He rolled his eyes.
"Your great-grandfather?" I encouraged.
"He was a tribal elder, like my father. You see, the cold ones are the natural enemies of the wolf—well,
not the wolf, really, but the wolves that turn into men, like our ancestors. You would call them
werewolves."
"Werewolves have enemies?"
"Only one."
I stared at him earnestly, hoping to disguise my impatience as admiration.
"So you see," Jacob continued, "the cold ones are traditionally our enemies. But this pack that came to
our territory during my great-grandfather's time was different. They didn't hunt the way others of their
kind did — they weren't supposed to be dangerous to the tribe. So my great-grandfather made a truce
with them. If they would promise to stay off our lands, we wouldn't expose them to the pale-faces." He
winked at me.
"If they weren't dangerous, then why... ?" I tried to understand, struggling not to let him see how
seriously I was considering his ghost story.
"There's always a risk for humans to be around the cold ones, even if they're civilized like this clan was.
You never know when they might get too hungry to resist." He deliberately worked a thick edge of
menace into his tone.
"What do you mean, 'civilized'?"
"They claimed that they didn't hunt humans. They supposedly were somehow able to prey on animals
instead."
I tried to keep my voice casual. "So how does it fit in with the Cullens? Are they like the cold ones your
greatgrandfather met?"
"No." He paused dramatically. "They are the same ones."
He must have thought the expression on my face was fear inspired by his story. He smiled, pleased, and
continued.
"There are more of them now, a new female and a new male, but the rest are the same. In my
great-grandfather's time they already knew of the leader, Carlisle. He'd been here and gone before your
people had even arrived." He was fighting a smile.
"And what are they?" I finally asked. "What are the cold ones?"
He smiled darkly.
"Blood drinkers," he replied in a chilling voice. "Your people call them vampires."
I stared out at the rough surf after he answered, not sure what my face was exposing."You have goose bumps," he laughed delightedly.
"You're a good storyteller," I complimented him, still staring into the waves.
"Pretty crazy stuff, though, isn't it? No wonder my dad doesn't want us to talk about it to anyone."
I couldn't control my expression enough to look at him yet. "Don't worry, I won't give you away."
"I guess I just violated the treaty," he laughed.
"I'll take it to the grave," I promised, and then I shivered.
"Seriously, though, don't say anything to Charlie. He was pretty mad at my dad when he heard that some
of us weren't going to the hospital since Dr. Cullen started working there."
"I won't, of course not."
"So do you think we're a bunch of superstitious natives or what?" he asked in a playful tone, but with a
hint of worry. I still hadn't looked away from the ocean.
I turned and smiled at him as normally as I could.
"No. I think you're very good at telling scary stories, though. I still have goose bumps, see?" I held up my
arm.
"Cool." He smiled.
And then the sound of the beach rocks clattering against each other warned us that someone was
approaching. Our heads snapped up at the same time to see Mike and Jessica about fifty yards away,
walking toward us.
"There you are, Bella," Mike called in relief, waving his arm over his head.
"Is that your boyfriend?" Jacob asked, alerted by the jealous edge in Mike's voice. I was surprised it was
so obvious.
"No, definitely not," I whispered. I was tremendously grateful to Jacob, and eager to make him as happy
as possible. I winked at him, carefully turning away from Mike to do so. He smiled, elated by my inept
flirting.
"So when I get my license..." he began.
"You should come see me in Forks. We could hang out sometime." I felt guilty as I said this, knowing
that I'd used him. But I really did like Jacob. He was someone I could easily be friends with.
Mike had reached us now, with Jessica still a few paces back. I could see his eyes appraising Jacob, and
looking satisfied at his obvious youth.
"Where have you been?" he asked, though the answer was right in front of him.
"Jacob was just telling me some local stories," I volunteered. "It was really interesting."
I smiled at Jacob warmly, and he grinned back.
"Well," Mike paused, carefully reassessing the situation as he watched our camaraderie. "We're packing
up — it looks like it's going to rain soon."We all looked up at the glowering sky. It certainly did look like rain.
"Okay." I jumped up. "I'm coming."
"It was nice to see you again," Jacob said, and I could tell he was taunting Mike just a bit.
"It really was. Next time Charlie comes down to see Billy, I'll come, too," I promised.
His grin stretched across his face. "That would be cool."
"And thanks," I added earnestly.
I pulled up my hood as we tramped across the rocks toward the parking lot. A few drops were
beginning to fall, making black spots on the stones where they landed. When we got to the Suburban the
others were already loading everything back in. I crawled into the backseat by Angela and Tyler,
announcing that I'd already had my turn in the shotgun position. Angela just stared out the window at the
escalating storm, and Lauren twisted around in the middle seat to occupy Tyler's attention, so I could
simply lay my head back on the seat and close my eyes and try very hard not to think.
7. NIGHTMARE
I told Charlie I had a lot of homework to do, and that I didn't want anything to eat. There was a
basketball game on that he was excited about, though of course I had no idea what was special about it,
so he wasn't aware of anything unusual in my face or tone.
Once in my room, I locked the door. I dug through my desk until I found my old headphones, and I
plugged them into my little CD player. I picked up a CD that Phil had given to me for Christmas. It was
one of his favorite bands, but they used a little too much bass and shrieking for my tastes. I popped it into
place and lay down on my bed. I put on the headphones, hit Play, and turned up the volume until it hurt
my ears. I closed my eyes, but the light still intruded, so I added a pillow over the top half of my face.
I concentrated very carefully on the music, trying to understand the lyrics, to unravel the complicated
drum patterns. By the third time I'd listened through the CD, I knew all the words to the choruses, at
least. I was surprised to find that I really did like the band after all, once I got past the blaring noise. I'd
have to thank Phil again.
And it worked. The shattering beats made it impossible for me to think — which was the whole purpose
of the exercise. I listened to the CD again and again, until I was singing along with all the songs, until,
finally, I fell asleep.
I opened my eyes to a familiar place. Aware in some corner of my consciousness that I was dreaming, I
recognized the green light of the forest. I could hear the waves crashing against the rocks somewhere
nearby. And I knew that if I found the ocean, I'd be able to see the sun. I was trying to follow the sound,
but then Jacob Black was there, tugging on my hand, pulling me back toward the blackest part of the
forest.
"Jacob? What's wrong?" I asked. His face was frightened as he yanked with all his strength against my
resistance; I didn't want to go into the dark.
"Run, Bella, you have to run!" he whispered, terrified."This way, Bella!" I recognized Mike's voice calling out of the gloomy heart of the trees, but I couldn't
see him.
"Why?" I asked, still pulling against Jacob's grasp, desperate now to find the sun.
But Jacob let go of my hand and yelped, suddenly shaking, falling to the dim forest floor. He twitched on
the ground as I watched in horror.
"Jacob!" I screamed. But he was gone. In his place was a large red-brown wolf with black eyes. The
wolf faced away from me, pointing toward the shore, the hair on the back of his shoulders bristling, low
growls issuing from between his exposed fangs.
"Bella, run!" Mike cried out again from behind me. But I didn't turn. I was watching a light coming toward
me from the beach.
And then Edward stepped out from the trees, his skin faintly glowing, his eyes black and dangerous. He
held up one hand and beckoned me to come to him. The wolf growled at my feet.
I took a step forward, toward Edward. He smiled then, and his teeth were sharp, pointed.
"Trust me," he purred.
I took another step.
The wolf launched himself across the space between me and the vampire, fangs aiming for the jugular.
"No!" I screamed, wrenching upright out of my bed.
My sudden movement caused the headphones to pull the CD player off the bedside table, and it clattered
to the wooden floor.
My light was still on, and I was sitting fully dressed on the bed, with my shoes on. I glanced, disoriented,
at the clock on my dresser. It was five-thirty in the morning.
I groaned, fell back, and rolled over onto my face, kicking off my boots. I was too uncomfortable to get
anywhere near sleep, though. I rolled back over and unbuttoned my jeans, yanking them off awkwardly
as I tried to stay horizontal. I could feel the braid in my hair, an uncomfortable ridge along the back of my
skull. I turned onto my side and ripped the rubber band out, quickly combing through the plaits with my
fingers. I pulled the pillow back over my eyes.
It was all no use, of course. My subconscious had dredged up exactly the images I'd been trying so
desperately to avoid. I was going to have to face them now.
I sat up, and my head spun for a minute as the blood flowed downward. First things first, I thought to
myself, happy to put it off as long as possible. I grabbed my bathroom bag.
The shower didn't last nearly as long as I hoped it would, though. Even taking the time to blow-dry my
hair, I was soon out of things to do in the bathroom. Wrapped in a towel, I crossed back to my room. I
couldn't tell if Charlie was still asleep, or if he had already left. I went to look out my window, and the
cruiser was gone. Fishing again.
I dressed slowly in my most comfy sweats and then made my bed — something I never did. I couldn't
put it off any longer. I went to my desk and switched on my old computer.
I hated using the Internet here. My modem was sadly outdated, my free service substandard; just dialingup took so long that I decided to go get myself a bowl of cereal while I waited.
I ate slowly, chewing each bite with care. When I was done, I washed the bowl and spoon, dried them,
and put them away. My feet dragged as I climbed the stairs. I went to my CD player first, picking it up
off the floor and placing it precisely in the center of the table. I pulled out the headphones, and put them
away in the desk drawer. Then I turned the same CD on, turning it down to the point where it was
background noise.
With another sigh, I turned to my computer. Naturally, the screen was covered in pop-up ads. I sat in my
hard folding chair and began closing all the little windows. Eventually I made it to my favorite search
engine. I shot down a few more pop-ups and then typed in one word.
Vampire.
It took an infuriatingly long time, of course. When the results came up, there was a lot to sift through —
everything from movies and TV shows to role-playing games, underground metal, and gothic cosmetic
companies.
Then I found a promising site — Vampires A—Z. I waited impatiently for it to load, quickly clicking
closed each ad that flashed across the screen. Finally the screen was finished — simple white
background with black text, academic-looking. Two quotes greeted me on the home page:
Throughout the vast shadowy world of ghosts and demons there is no figure so terrible, no figure
so dreaded and abhorred, yet dight with such fearful fascination, as the vampire, who is himself
neither ghost nor demon, but yet who partakes the dark natures and possesses the mysterious and
terrible qualities of both. — Rev. Montague Summers
If there is in this world a well-attested account, it is that of the vampires. Nothing is lacking:
official reports, affidavits of well-known people, of surgeons, of priests, of magistrates; the
judicial proof is most complete. And with all that, who is there who believes in vampires? —
Rousseau
The rest of the site was an alphabetized listing of all the different myths of vampires held throughout the
world. The first I clicked on, the Danag, was a Filipino vampire supposedly responsible for planting taro
on the islands long ago. The myth continued that the Danag worked with humans for many years, but the
partnership ended one day when a woman cut her finger and a Danag sucked her wound, enjoying the
taste so much that it drained her body completely of blood.
I read carefully through the descriptions, looking for anything that sounded familiar, let alone plausible. It
seemed that most vampire myths centered around beautiful women as demons and children as victims;
they also seemed like constructs created to explain away the high mortality rates for young children, and
to give men an excuse for infidelity. Many of the stories involved bodiless spirits and warnings against
improper burials. There wasn't much that sounded like the movies I'd seen, and only a very few, like the
Hebrew Estrie and the Polish Upier, who were even preoccupied with drinking blood.
Only three entries really caught my attention: the Romanian Varacolaci, a powerful undead being who
could appear as a beautiful, pale-skinned human, the Slovak Nelapsi, a creature so strong and fast itcould massacre an entire village in the single hour after midnight, and one other, the Stregoni benefici.
About this last there was only one brief sentence.
Stregoni benefici: An Italian vampire, said to be on the side of goodness, and a mortal enemy of
all evil vampires.
It was a relief, that one small entry, the one myth among hundreds that claimed the existence of good
vampires.
Overall, though, there was little that coincided with Jacob's stories or my own observations. I'd made a
little catalogue in my mind as I'd read and carefully compared it with each myth. Speed, strength, beauty,
pale skin, eyes that shift color; and then Jacob's criteria: blood drinkers, enemies of the werewolf,
cold-skinned, and immortal. There were very few myths that matched even one factor.
And then another problem, one that I'd remembered from the small number of scary movies that I'd seen
and was backed up by today's reading — vampires couldn't come out in the daytime, the sun would burn
them to a cinder. They slept in coffins all day and came out only at night.
Aggravated, I snapped off the computer's main power switch, not waiting to shut things down properly.
Through my irritation, I felt overwhelming embarrassment. It was all so stupid. I was sitting in my room,
researching vampires. What was wrong with me? I decided that most of the blame belonged on the
doorstep of the town of Forks — and the entire sodden Olympic Peninsula, for that matter.
I had to get out of the house, but there was nowhere I wanted to go that didn't involve a three-day drive.
I pulled on my boots anyway, unclear where I was headed, and went downstairs. I shrugged into my
raincoat without checking the weather and stomped out the door.
It was overcast, but not raining yet. I ignored my truck and started east on foot, angling across Charlie's
yard toward the ever-encroaching forest. It didn't take long till I was deep enough for the house and the
road to be invisible, for the only sound to be the squish of the damp earth under my feet and the sudden
cries of the jays.
There was a thin ribbon of a trail that led through the forest here, or I wouldn't risk wandering on my own
like this. My sense of direction was hopeless; I could get lost in much less helpful surroundings. The trail
wound deeper and deeper into the forest, mostly east as far as I could tell. It snaked around the Sitka
spruces and the hemlocks, the yews and the maples. I only vaguely knew the names of the trees around
me, and all I knew was due to Charlie pointing them out to me from the cruiser window in earlier days.
There were many I didn't know, and others I couldn't be sure about because they were so covered in
green parasites.
I followed the trail as long as my anger at myself pushed me forward. As that started to ebb, I slowed. A
few drops of moisture trickled down from the canopy above me, but I couldn't be certain if it was
beginning to rain or if it was simply pools left over from yesterday, held high in the leaves above me,
slowly dripping their way back to the earth. A recently fallen tree — I knew it was recent because it
wasn't entirely carpeted in moss — rested against the trunk of one of her sisters, creating a sheltered little
bench just a few safe feet off the trail. I stepped over the ferns and sat carefully, making sure my jacket
was between the damp seat and my clothes wherever they touched, and leaned my hooded head back
against the living tree.
This was the wrong place to have come. I should have known, but where else was there to go? The
forest was deep green and far too much like the scene in last night's dream to allow for peace of mind.
Now that there was no longer the sound of my soggy footsteps, the silence was piercing. The birds werequiet, too, the drops increasing in frequency, so it must be raining above. The ferns stood higher than my
head, now that I was seated, and I knew someone could walk by on the path, three feet away, and not
see me.
Here in the trees it was much easier to believe the absurdities that embarrassed me indoors. Nothing had
changed in this forest for thousands of years, and all the myths and legends of a hundred different lands
seemed much more likely in this green haze than they had in my clear-cut bedroom.
I forced myself to focus on the two most vital questions I had to answer, but I did so unwillingly.
First, I had to decide if it was possible that what Jacob had said about the Cullens could be true.
Immediately my mind responded with a resounding negative. It was silly and morbid to entertain such
ridiculous notions. But what, then? I asked myself. There was no rational explanation for how I was alive
at this moment. I listed again in my head the things I'd observed myself: the impossible speed and
strength, the eye color shifting from black to gold and back again, the inhuman beauty, the pale, frigid
skin. And more — small things that registered slowly — how they never seemed to eat, the disturbing
grace with which they moved. And the way be
sometimes spoke, with unfamiliar cadences and phrases that better fit the style of a turn-of-the-century
novel than that of a twenty-first-century classroom. He had skipped class the day we'd done blood
typing. He hadn't said no to the beach trip till he heard where we were going. He seemed to know what
everyone around him was thinking... except me. He had told me he was the villain, dangerous...
Could the Cullens be vampires?
Well, they were something. Something outside the possibility of rational justification was taking place in
front of my incredulous eyes. Whether it be Jacob's cold ones or my own superhero theory, Edward
Cullen was not... human. He was something more.
So then — maybe. That would have to be my answer for now.
And then the most important question of all. What was I going to do if it was true?
If Edward was a vampire — I could hardly make myself think the words — then what should I do?
Involving someone else was definitely out. I couldn't even believe myself; anyone I told would have me
committed.
Only two options seemed practical. The first was to take his advice: to be smart, to avoid him as much as
possible. To cancel our plans, to go back to ignoring him as far as I was able. To pretend there was an
impenetrably thick glass wall between us in the one class where we were forced together. To tell him to
leave me alone — and mean it this time.
I was gripped in a sudden agony of despair as I considered that alternative. My mind rejected the pain,
quickly skipping on to the next option.
I could do nothing different. After all, if he was something... sinister, he'd done nothing to hurt me so far.
In fact, I would be a dent in Tyler's fender if he hadn't acted so quickly. So quickly, I argued with myself,
that it might have been sheer reflexes. But if it was a reflex to save lives, how bad could he be? I retorted.
My head spun around in answerless circles.
There was one thing I was sure of, if I was sure of anything. The dark Edward in my dream last night was
a reflection only of my fear of the word Jacob had spoken, and not Edward himself. Even so, when I'd
screamed out in terror at the werewolf's lunge, it wasn't fear for the wolf that brought the cry of "no" tomy lips. It was fear that he would be harmed — even as he called to me with sharp-edged fangs, I feared
for him.
And I knew in that I had my answer. I didn't know if there ever was a choice, really. I was already in too
deep. Now that I knew — if I knew — I could do nothing about my frightening secret. Because when I
thought of him, of his voice, his hypnotic eyes, the magnetic force of his personality, I wanted nothing
more than to be with him right now. Even if... but I couldn't think it. Not here, alone in the darkening
forest. Not while the rain made it dim as twilight under the canopy and pattered like footsteps across the
matted earthen floor. I shivered and rose quickly from my place of concealment, worried that somehow
the path would have disappeared with the rain.
But it was there, safe and clear, winding its way out of the dripping green maze. I followed it hastily, my
hood pulled close around my face, becoming surprised, as I nearly ran through the trees, at how far I had
come. I started to wonder if I was heading out at all, or following the path farther into the confines of the
forest. Before I could get too panicky, though, I began to glimpse some open spaces through the webbed
branches. And then I could hear a car passing on the street, and I was free, Charlie's lawn stretched out
in front of me, the house beckoning me, promising warmth and dry socks.
It was just noon when I got back inside. I went upstairs and got dressed for the day, jeans and a t-shirt,
since I was staying indoors. It didn't take too much effort to concentrate on my task for the day, a paper
on Macbeth that was due Wednesday. I settled into outlining a rough draft contentedly, more serene than
I'd felt since... well, since Thursday afternoon, if I was being honest.
That had always been my way, though. Making decisions was the painful part for me, the part I agonized
over. But once the decision was made, I simply followed through — usually with relief that the choice
was made. Sometimes the relief was tainted by despair, like my decision to come to Forks. But it was
still better than wrestling with the alternatives.
This decision was ridiculously easy to live with. Dangerously easy.
And so the day was quiet, productive — I finished my paper before eight. Charlie came home with a
large catch, and I made a mental note to pick up a book of recipes for fish while I was in Seattle next
week. The chills that flashed up my spine whenever I thought of that trip were no different than the ones
I'd felt before I'd taken my walk with Jacob Black. They should be different, I thought. I should be afraid
— I knew I should be, but I couldn't feel the right kind of fear.
I slept dreamlessly that night, exhausted from beginning my day so early, and sleeping so poorly the night
before. I woke, for the second time since arriving in Forks, to the bright yellow light of a sunny day. I
skipped to the window, stunned to see that there was hardly a cloud in the sky, and those there were just
fleecy little white puffs that couldn't possibly be carrying any rain. I opened the window — surprised
when it opened silently, without sticking, not having opened it in who knows how many years — and
sucked in the relatively dry air. It was nearly warm and hardly windy at all. My blood was electric in my
veins.
Charlie was finishing breakfast when I came downstairs, and he picked up on my mood immediately.
"Nice day out," he commented.
"Yes," I agreed with a grin.
He smiled back, his brown eyes crinkling around the edges. When Charlie smiled, it was easier to see
why he and my mother had jumped too quickly into an early marriage. Most of the young romantic he'd
been in those days had faded before I'd known him, as the curly brown hair — the same color, if not thesame texture, as mine — had dwindled, slowly revealing more and more of the shiny skin of his forehead.
But when he smiled I could see a little of the man who had run away with Renée when she was just two
years older than I was now.
I ate breakfast cheerily, watching the dust moats stirring in the sunlight that streamed in the back window.
Charlie called out a goodbye, and I heard the cruiser pull away from the house. I hesitated on my way
out the door, hand on my rain jacket. It would be tempting fate to leave it home. With a sigh, I folded it
over my arm and stepped out into the brightest light I'd seen in months.
By dint of much elbow grease, I was able to get both windows in the truck almost completely rolled
down. I was one of the first ones to school; I hadn't even checked the clock in my hurry to get outside. I
parked and headed toward the seldom-used picnic benches on the south side of the cafeteria. The
benches were still a little damp, so I sat on my jacket, glad to have a use for it. My homework was done
— the product of a slow social life — but there were a few Trig problems I wasn't sure I had right. I
took out my book industriously, but halfway through rechecking the first problem I was daydreaming,
watching the sunlight play on the red-barked trees. I sketched inattentively along the margins of my
homework. After a few minutes, I suddenly realized I'd drawn five pairs of dark eyes staring out of the
page at me. I scrubbed them out with the eraser.
"Bella!" I heard someone call, and it sounded like Mike.
I looked around to realize that the school had become populated while I'd been sitting there,
absentminded. Everyone was in t-shirts, some even in shorts though the temperature couldn't be over
sixty. Mike was coming toward me in khaki shorts and a striped Rugby shirt, waving.
"Hey, Mike," I called, waving back, unable to be halfhearted on a morning like this.
He came to sit by me, the tidy spikes of his hair shining golden in the light, his grin stretching across his
face. He was so delighted to see me, I couldn't help but feel gratified.
"I never noticed before — your hair has red in it," he commented, catching between his fingers a strand
that was fluttering in the light breeze.
"Only in the sun."
I became just a little uncomfortable as he tucked the lock behind my ear.
"Great day, isn't it?"
"My kind of day," I agreed.
"What did you do yesterday?" His tone was just a bit too proprietary.
"I mostly worked on my essay." I didn't add that I was finished with it — no need to sound smug.
He hit his forehead with the heel of his hand. "Oh yeah — that's due Thursday, right?"
"Um, Wednesday, I think."
"Wednesday?" He frowned. "That's not good... What are you writing yours on?"
"Whether Shakespeare's treatment of the female characters is misogynistic."
He stared at me like I'd just spoken in pig Latin."I guess I'll have to get to work on that tonight," he said, deflated. "I was going to ask if you wanted to go
out."
"Oh." I was taken off guard. Why couldn't I ever have a pleasant conversation with Mike anymore
without it getting awkward?
"Well, we could go to dinner or something... and I could work on it later." He smiled at me hopefully.
"Mike..." I hated being put on the spot. "I don't think that would be the best idea."
His face fell. "Why?" he asked, his eyes guarded. My thoughts flickered to Edward, wondering if that's
where his thoughts were as well.
"I think... and if you ever repeat what I'm saying right now I will cheerfully beat you to death," I
threatened, "but I think that would hurt Jessica's feelings."
He was bewildered, obviously not thinking in that direction at all. "Jessica?"
"Really, Mike, are you blind?"
"Oh," he exhaled — clearly dazed. I took advantage of that to make my escape.
"It's time for class, and I can't be late again." I gathered my books up and stuffed them in my bag.
We walked in silence to building three, and his expression was distracted. I hoped whatever thoughts he
was immersed in were leading him in the right direction.
When I saw Jessica in Trig, she was bubbling with enthusiasm. She, Angela, and Lauren were going to
Port Angeles tonight to go dress shopping for the dance, and she wanted me to come, too, even though I
didn't need one. I was indecisive. It would be nice to get out of town with some girlfriends, but Lauren
would be there. And who knew what I could be doing tonight... But that was definitely the wrong path
to let my mind wander down. Of course I was happy about the sunlight. But that wasn't completely
responsible for the euphoric mood I was in, not even close.
So I gave her a maybe, telling her I'd have to talk with Charlie first.
She talked of nothing but the dance on the way to Spanish, continuing as if without an interruption when
class finally ended, five minutes late, and we were on our way to lunch. I was far too lost in my own
frenzy of anticipation to notice much of what she said. I was painfully eager to see not just him but all the
Cullens — to compare them with the new suspicions that plagued my mind. As I crossed the threshold of
the cafeteria, I felt the first true tingle of fear slither down my spine and settle in my stomach. Would they
be able to know what I was thinking? And then a different feeling jolted through me — would Edward be
waiting to sit with me again?
As was my routine, I glanced first toward the Cullens' table. A shiver of panic trembled in my stomach as
I realized it was empty. With dwindling hope, my eyes scoured the rest of the cafeteria, hoping to find
him alone, waiting for me. The place was nearly filled — Spanish had made us late — but there was no
sign of Edward or any of his family. Desolation hit me with crippling strength.
I shambled along behind Jessica, not bothering to pretend to listen anymore.
We were late enough that everyone was already at our table. I avoided the empty chair next to Mike in
favor of one by Angela. I vaguely noticed that Mike held the chair out politely for Jessica, and that her
face lit up in response.Angela asked a few quiet questions about the Macbeth paper, which I answered as naturally as I could
while spiraling downward in misery. She, too, invited me to go with them tonight, and I agreed now,
grasping at anything to distract myself.
I realized I'd been holding on to a last shred of hope when I entered Biology, saw his empty seat, and felt
a new wave of disappointment.
The rest of the day passed slowly, dismally. In Gym, we had a lecture on the rules of badminton, the next
torture they had lined up for me. But at least it meant I got to sit and listen instead of stumbling around on
the court. The best part was the coach didn't finish, so I got another day off tomorrow. Never mind that
the day after they would arm me with a racket before unleashing me on the rest of the class.
I was glad to leave campus, so I would be free to pout and mope before I went out tonight with Jessica
and company. But right after I walked in the door of Charlie's house, Jessica called to cancel our plans. I
tried to be happy that Mike had asked her out to dinner — I really was relieved that he finally seemed to
be catching on — but my enthusiasm sounded false in my own ears. She rescheduled our shopping trip
for tomorrow night.
Which left me with little in the way of distractions. I had fish marinating for dinner, with a salad and bread
left over from the night before, so there was nothing to do there. I spent a focused half hour on
homework, but then I was through with that, too. I checked my e-mail, reading the backlog of letters
from my mother, getting snippier as they progressed to the present. I sighed and typed a quick response.
Mom,
Sorry. I've been out. I went to the beach with some friends. And I had to write a paper.
My excuses were fairly pathetic, so I gave up on that.
It's sunny outside today - I know, I'm shocked, too - so I'm going to go outside and soak up
as much vitamin D as I can. I love you,
Bella.
I decided to kill an hour with non-school-related reading. I had a small collection of books that came
with me to Forks, the shabbiest volume being a compilation of the works of Jane Austen. I selected that
one and headed to the backyard, grabbing a ragged old quilt from the linen cupboard at the top of the
stairs on my way down.
Outside in Charlie's small, square yard, I folded the quilt in half and laid it out of the reach of the trees'
shadows on the thick lawn that would always be slightly wet, no matter how long the sun shone. I lay on
my stomach, crossing my ankles in the air, flipping through the different novels in the book, trying to
decide which would occupy my mind the most thoroughly. My favorites were Pride and Prejudice and
Sense and Sensibility. I'd read the first most recently, so I started into Sense and Sensibility, only to
remember after I began three that the hero of the story happened to be named Edward. Angrily, I turned
to Mansfield Park, but the hero of that piece was named Edmund, and that was just too close. Weren'tthere any other names available in the late eighteenth century? I snapped the book shut, annoyed, and
rolled over onto my back. I pushed my sleeves up as high as they would go, and closed my eyes. I would
think of nothing but the warmth on my skin, I told myself severely. The breeze was still light, but it blew
tendrils of my hair around my face, and that tickled a bit. I pulled all my hair over my head, letting it fan
out on the quilt above me, and focused again on the heat that touched my eyelids, my cheekbones, my
nose, my lips, my forearms, my neck, soaked through my light shirt...
The next thing I was conscious of was the sound of Charlie's cruiser turning onto the bricks of the
driveway. I sat up in surprise, realizing the light was gone, behind the trees, and I had fallen asleep. I
looked around, muddled, with the sudden feeling that I wasn't alone.
"Charlie?" I asked. But I could hear his door slamming in front of the house.
I jumped up, foolishly edgy, gathering the now-damp quilt and my book. I ran inside to get some oil
heating on the stove, realizing that dinner would be late. Charlie was hanging up his gun belt and stepping
out of his boots when I came in.
"Sorry, Dad, dinner's not ready yet — I fell asleep outside." I stifled a yawn.
"Don't worry about it," he said. "I wanted to catch the score on the game, anyway."
I watched TV with Charlie after dinner, for something to do. There wasn't anything on I wanted to watch,
but he knew I didn't like baseball, so he turned it to some mindless sitcom that neither of us enjoyed. He
seemed happy, though, to be doing something together. And it felt good, despite my depression, to make
him happy.
"Dad," I said during a commercial, "Jessica and Angela are going to look at dresses for the dance
tomorrow night in Port Angeles, and they wanted me to help them choose... do you mind if I go with
them?"
"Jessica Stanley?" he asked.
"And Angela Weber." I sighed as I gave him the details.
He was confused. "But you're not going to the dance, right?"
"No, Dad, but I'm helping them find dresses — you know, giving them constructive criticism." I wouldn't
have to explain this to a woman.
"Well, okay." He seemed to realize that he was out of his depth with the girlie stuff. "It's a school night,
though."
"We'll leave right after school, so we can get back early. You'll be okay for dinner, right?"
"Bells, I fed myself for seventeen years before you got here," he reminded me.
"I don't know how you survived," I muttered, then added more clearly, "I'll leave some things for cold-cut
sandwiches in the fridge, okay? Right on top."
It was sunny again in the morning. I awakened with renewed hope that I grimly tried to suppress. I
dressed for the warmer weather in a deep blue V-neck blouse — something I'd worn in the dead of
winter in Phoenix.
I had planned my arrival at school so that I barely had time to make it to class. With a sinking heart, Icircled the full lot looking for a space, while also searching for the silver Volvo that was clearly not there.
I parked in the last row and hurried to English, arriving breathless, but subdued, before the final bell.
It was the same as yesterday — I just couldn't keep little sprouts of hope from budding in my mind, only
to have them squashed painfully as I searched the lunchroom in vain and sat at my empty Biology table.
The Port Angeles scheme was back on again for tonight and made all the more attractive by the fact that
Lauren had other obligations. I was anxious to get out of town so I could stop glancing over my shoulder,
hoping to see him appearing out of the blue the way he always did. I vowed to myself that I would be in a
good mood tonight and not ruin Angela's or Jessica's enjoyment in the dress hunting. Maybe I could do a
little clothes shopping as well. I refused to think that I might be shopping alone in Seattle this weekend,
no longer interested in the earlier arrangement. Surely he wouldn't cancel without at least telling me.
After school, Jessica followed me home in her old white Mercury so that I could ditch my books and
truck. I brushed through my hair quickly when I was inside, feeling a slight lift of excitement as I
contemplated getting out of Forks. I left a note for Charlie on the table, explaining again where to find
dinner, switched my scruffy wallet from my school bag to a purse I rarely used, and ran out to join
Jessica. We went to Angela's house next, and she was waiting for us. My excitement increased
exponentially as we actually drove out of the town limits.
8. PORT ANGELES
Jess drove faster than the Chief, so we made it to Port Angeles by four. It had been a while since I'd had
a girls' night out, and the estrogen rush was invigorating. We listened to whiny rock songs while Jessica
jabbered on about the boys we hung out with. Jessica's dinner with Mike had gone very well, and she
was hoping that by Saturday night they would have progressed to the first-kiss stage. I smiled to myself,
pleased. Angela was passively happy to be going to the dance, but not really interested in Eric. Jess tried
to get her to confess who her type was, but I interrupted with a question about dresses after a bit, to
spare her. Angela threw a grateful glance my way.
Port Angeles was a beautiful little tourist trap, much more polished and quaint than Forks. But Jessica
and Angela knew it well, so they didn't plan to waste time on the picturesque boardwalk by the bay. Jess
drove straight to the one big department store in town, which was a few streets in from the bay area's
visitor-friendly face.
The dance was billed as semiformal, and we weren't exactly sure what that meant. Both Jessica and
Angela seemed surprised and almost disbelieving when I told them I'd never been to a dance in Phoenix.
"Didn't you ever go with a boyfriend or something?" Jess asked dubiously as we walked through the front
doors of the store.
"Really," I tried to convince her, not wanting to confess my dancing problems. "I've never had a boyfriend
or anything close. I didn't go out much."
"Why not?" Jessica demanded.
"No one asked me," I answered honestly.
She looked skeptical. "People ask you out here," she reminded me, "and you tell them no." We were in
the juniors' section now, scanning the racks for dress-up clothes."Well, except for Tyler," Angela amended quietly.
"Excuse me?" I gasped. "What did you say?"
"Tyler told everyone he's taking you to prom," Jessica informed me with suspicious eyes.
"He said what?" I sounded like I was choking.
"I told you it wasn't true," Angela murmured to Jessica.
I was silent, still lost in shock that was quickly turning to irritation. But we had found the dress racks, and
now we had work to do.
"That's why Lauren doesn't like you," Jessica giggled while we pawed through the clothes.
I ground my teeth. "Do you think that if I ran him over with my truck he would stop feeling guilty about
the accident? That he might give up on making amends and call it even?"
"Maybe," Jess snickered. '"If that's why he's doing this."
The dress selection wasn't large, but both of them found a few things to try on. I sat on a low chair just
inside the dressing room, by the three-way mirror, trying to control my fuming.
Jess was torn between two — one a long, strapless, basic black number, the other a knee-length electric
blue with spaghetti straps. I encouraged her to go with the blue; why not play up the eyes? Angela chose
a pale pink dress that draped around her tall frame nicely and brought out honey tints in her light brown
hair. I complimented them both generously and helped by returning the rejects to their racks. The whole
process was much shorter and easier than similar trips I'd taken with Renée at home. I guess there was
something to be said for limited choices.
We headed over to shoes and accessories. While they tried things on I merely watched and critiqued, not
in the mood to shop for myself, though I did need new shoes. The girls'-night high was wearing off in the
wake of my annoyance at Tyler, leaving room for the gloom to move back in.
"Angela?" I began, hesitant, while she was trying on a pair of pink strappy heels — she was overjoyed to
have a date tall enough that she could wear high heels at all.
Jessica had drifted to the jewelry counter and we were alone.
"Yes?" She held her leg out, twisting her ankle to get a better view of the shoe.
I chickened out. "I like those."
"I think I'll get them — though they'll never match anything but the one dress," she mused.
"Oh, go ahead — they're on sale," I encouraged. She smiled, putting the lid back on a box that contained
more practical-looking off-white shoes.
I tried again. "Um, Angela..." She looked up curiously.
"Is it normal for the... Cullens" — I kept my eyes on the shoes — "to be out of school a lot?" I failed
miserably in my attempt to sound nonchalant.
"Yes, when the weather is good they go backpacking all the time — even the doctor. They're all real
outdoorsy," she told me quietly, examining her shoes, too. She didn't ask one question, let alone thehundreds that Jessica would have unleashed. I was beginning to really like Angela.
"Oh." I let the subject drop as Jessica returned to show us the rhinestone jewelry she'd found to match
her silver shoes.
We planned to go to dinner at a little Italian restaurant on the boardwalk, but the dress shopping hadn't
taken as long as we'd expected. Jess and Angela were going to take their clothes back to the car and
then walk down to the bay. I told them I would meet them at the restaurant in an hour — I wanted to
look for a bookstore. They were both willing to come with me, but I encouraged them to go have fun —
they didn't know how preoccupied I could get when surrounded by books; it was something I preferred
to do alone. They walked off to the car chattering happily, and I headed in the direction Jess pointed out.
I had no trouble finding the bookstore, but it wasn't what I was looking for. The windows were full of
crystals, dream-catchers, and books about spiritual healing. I didn't even go inside. Through the glass I
could see a fifty-year-old woman with long, gray hair worn straight down her back, clad in a dress right
out of the sixties, smiling welcomingly from behind the counter. I decided that was one conversation I
could skip. There had to be a normal bookstore in town.
I meandered through the streets, which were filling up with end-of-the-workday traffic, and hoped I was
headed toward downtown. I wasn't paying as much attention as I should to where I was going; I was
wrestling with despair. I was trying so hard not to think about him, and what Angela had said... and
more than anything trying to beat down my hopes for Saturday, fearing a disappointment more painful
than the rest, when I looked up to see someone's silver Volvo parked along the street and it all came
crashing down on me. Stupid, unreliable vampire, I thought to myself.
I stomped along in a southerly direction, toward some glass-fronted shops that looked promising. But
when I got to them, they were just a repair shop and a vacant space. I still had too much time to go
looking for Jess and Angela yet, and I definitely needed to get my mood in hand before I met back up
with them. I ran my fingers through my hair a couple of times and took some deep breaths before I
continued around the corner.
I started to realize, as I crossed another road, that I was going the wrong direction. The little foot traffic I
had seen was going north, and it looked like the buildings here were mostly warehouses. I decided to
turn east at the next corner, and then loop around after a few blocks and try my luck on a different street
on my way back to the boardwalk.
A group of four men turned around the corner I was heading for, dressed too casually to be heading
home from the office, but they were too grimy to be tourists. As they approached me, I realized they
weren't too many years older than I was. They were joking loudly among themselves, laughing raucously
and punching each other's arms. I scooted as far to the inside of the sidewalk as I could to give them
room, walking swiftly, looking past them to the corner.
"Hey, there!" one of them called as they passed, and he had to be talking to me since no one else was
around. I glanced up automatically. Two of them had paused, the other two were slowing. The closest, a
heavyset, dark-haired man in his early twenties, seemed to be the one who had spoken. He was wearing
a flannel shirt open over a dirty t-shirt, cut-off jeans, and sandals. He took half a step toward me.
"Hello," I mumbled, a knee-jerk reaction. Then I quickly looked away and walked faster toward the
corner. I could hear them laughing at full volume behind me.
"Hey, wait!" one of them called after me again, but I kept my head down and rounded the corner with a
sigh of relief. I could still hear them chortling behind me.I found myself on a sidewalk leading past the backs of several somber-colored warehouses, each with
large bay doors for unloading trucks, padlocked for the night. The south side of the street had no
sidewalk, only a chain-link fence topped with barbed wire protecting some kind of engine parts storage
yard. I'd wandered far past the part of Port Angeles that I, as a guest, was intended to see. It was getting
dark, I realized, the clouds finally returning, piling up on the western horizon, creating an early sunset. The
eastern sky was still clear, but graying, shot through with streaks of pink and orange. I'd left my jacket in
the car, and a sudden shiver made me cross my arms tightly across my chest. A single van passed me,
and then the road was empty.
The sky suddenly darkened further, and, as I looked over my shoulder to glare at the offending cloud, I
realized with a shock that two men were walking quietly twenty feet behind me.
They were from the same group I'd passed at the corner, though neither was the dark one who'd spoken
to me. I turned my head forward at once, quickening my pace. A chill that had nothing to do with the
weather made me shiver again. My purse was on a shoulder strap and I had it slung across my body, the
way you were supposed to wear it so it wouldn't get snatched. I knew exactly where my pepper spray
was — still in my duffle bag under the bed, never unpacked. I didn't have much money with me, just a
twenty and some ones, and I thought about "accidentally" dropping my bag and walking away. But a
small, frightened voice in the back of my mind warned me that they might be something worse than
thieves.
I listened intently to their quiet footsteps, which were much too quiet when compared to the boisterous
noise they'd been making earlier, and it didn't sound like they were speeding up, or getting any closer to
me. Breathe, I had to remind myself. You don't know they're following you. I continued to walk as
quickly as I could without actually running, focusing on the right-hand turn that was only a few yards
away from me now. I could hear them, staying as far back as they'd been before. A blue car turned onto
the street from the south and drove quickly past me. I thought of jumping out in front of it, but I hesitated,
inhibited, unsure that I was really being pursued, and then it was too late.
I reached the corner, but a swift glance revealed that it was only a blind drive to the back of another
building. I was half-turned in anticipation; I had to hurriedly correct and dash across the narrow drive,
back to the sidewalk. The street ended at the next corner, where there was a stop sign. I concentrated
on the faint footsteps behind me, deciding whether or not to run. They sounded farther back, though, and
I knew they could outrun me in any case. I was sure to trip and go sprawling if I tried to go any faster.
The footfalls were definitely farther back. I risked a quick glance over my shoulder, and they were maybe
forty feet back now, I saw with relief. But they were both staring at me.
It seemed to take forever for me to get to the corner. I kept my pace steady, the men behind me falling
ever so slightly farther behind with every step. Maybe they realized they had scared me and were sorry. I
saw two cars going north pass the intersection I was heading for, and I exhaled in relief. There would be
more people around once I got off this deserted street. I skipped around the corner with a grateful sigh.
And skidded to a stop.
The street was lined on both sides by blank, doorless, windowless walls. I could see in the distance, two
intersections down, streetlamps, cars, and more pedestrians, but they were all too far away. Because
lounging against the western building, midway down the street, were the other two men from the group,
both watching with excited smiles as I froze dead on the sidewalk. I realized then that I wasn't being
followed.
I was being herded.I paused for only a second, but it felt like a very long time. I turned then and darted to the other side of
the road. I had a sinking feeling that it was a wasted attempt. The footsteps behind me were louder now.
"There you are!" The booming voice of the stocky, dark-haired man shattered the intense quiet and made
me jump. In the gathering darkness, it seemed like he was looking past me.
"Yeah," a voice called loudly from behind me, making me jump again as I tried to hurry down the street.
"We just took a little detour."
My steps had to slow now. I was closing the distance between myself and the lounging pair too quickly. I
had a good loud scream, and I sucked in air, preparing to use it, but my throat was so dry I wasn't sure
how much volume I could manage. With a quick movement I slipped my purse over my head, gripping
the strap with one hand, ready to surrender it or use it as weapon as need demanded.
The thickset man shrugged away from the wall as I warily came to a stop, and walked slowly into the
street.
"Stay away from me," I warned in a voice that was supposed to sound strong and fearless. But I was
right about the dry throat — no volume.
"Don't be like that, sugar," he called, and the raucous laughter started again behind me.
I braced myself, feet apart, trying to remember through my panic what little self-defense I knew. Heel of
the hand thrust upward, hopefully breaking the nose or shoving it into the brain. Finger through the eye
socket — try to hook around and pop the eye out. And the standard knee to the groin, of course. That
same pessimistic voice in my mind spoke up then, reminding me that I probably wouldn't have a chance
against one of them, and there were four. Shut up! I commanded the voice before terror could
incapacitate me. I wasn't going out without taking someone with me. I tried to swallow so I could build
up a decent scream.
Headlights suddenly flew around the corner, the car almost hitting the stocky one, forcing him to jump
back toward the sidewalk. I dove into the road — this car was going to stop, or have to hit me. But the
silver car unexpectedly fishtailed around, skidding to a stop with the passenger door open just a few feet
from me.
"Get in," a furious voice commanded.
It was amazing how instantaneously the choking fear vanished, amazing how suddenly the feeling of
security washed over me — even before I was off the street — as soon as I heard his voice. I jumped
into the seat, slamming the door shut behind me.
It was dark in the car, no light had come on with the opening of the door, and I could barely see his face
in the glow from the dashboard. The tires squealed as he spun around to face north, accelerating too
quickly, swerving toward the stunned men on the street. I caught a glimpse of them diving for the
sidewalk as we straightened out and sped toward the harbor.
"Put on your seat belt," he commanded, and I realized I was clutching the seat with both hands. I quickly
obeyed; the snap as the belt connected was loud in the darkness. He took a sharp left, racing forward,
blowing through several stop signs without a pause.
But I felt utterly safe and, for the moment, totally unconcerned about where we were going. I stared at his
face in profound relief, relief that went beyond my sudden deliverance. I studied his flawless features in
the limited light, waiting for my breath to return to normal, until it occurred to me that his expression wasmurderously angry.
"Are you okay?" I asked, surprised at how hoarse my voice sounded.
"No," he said curtly, and his tone was livid.
I sat in silence, watching his face while his blazing eyes stared straight ahead, until the car came to a
sudden stop. I glanced around, but it was too dark to see anything beside the vague outline of dark trees
crowding the roadside. We weren't in town anymore.
"Bella?" he asked, his voice tight, controlled.
"Yes?" My voice was still rough. I tried to clear my throat quietly.
"Are you all right?" He still didn't look at me, but the fury was plain on his face.
"Yes," I croaked softly.
"Distract me, please," he ordered.
"I'm sorry, what?"
He exhaled sharply.
"Just prattle about something unimportant until I calm down," he clarified, closing his eyes and pinching
the bridge of his nose with his thumb and forefinger.
"Um." I wracked my brain for something trivial. "I'm going to run over Tyler Crowley tomorrow before
school?"
He was still squeezing his eyes closed, but the corner of his mouth twitched.
"Why?"
"He's telling everyone that he's taking me to prom — either he's insane or he's still trying to make up for
almost killing me last... well, you remember it, and he thinks prom is somehow the correct way to do
this. So I figure if I endanger his life, then we're even, and he can't keep trying to make amends. I don't
need enemies and maybe Lauren would back off if he left me alone. I might have to total his Sentra,
though. If he doesn't have a ride he can't take anyone to prom..." I babbled on.
"I heard about that." He sounded a bit more composed.
"You did?" I asked in disbelief, my previous irritation flaring. "If he's paralyzed from the neck down, he
can't go to the prom, either," I muttered, refining my plan.
Edward sighed, and finally opened his eyes.
"Better?"
"Not really."
I waited, but he didn't speak again. He leaned his head back against the seat, staring at the ceiling of the
car. His face was rigid.
"What's wrong?" My voice came out in a whisper."Sometimes I have a problem with my temper, Bella." He was whispering, too, and as he stared out the
window, his eyes narrowed into slits. "But it wouldn't be helpful for me to turn around and hunt down
those..." He didn't finish his sentence, looking away, struggling for a moment to control his anger again.
"At least," he continued, "that's what I'm trying to convince myself."
"Oh." The word seemed inadequate, but I couldn't think of a better response.
We sat in silence again. I glanced at the clock on the dashboard. It was past six-thirty.
"Jessica and Angela will be worried," I murmured. "I was supposed to meet them."
He started the engine without another word, turning around smoothly and speeding back toward town.
We were under the streetlights in no time at all, still going too fast, weaving with ease through the cars
slowly cruising the boardwalk. He parallel-parked against the curb in a space I would have thought much
too small for the Volvo, but he slid in effortlessly in one try. I looked out the window to see the lights of
La Bella Italia, and Jess and Angela just leaving, pacing anxiously away from us.
"How did you know where... ?" I began, but then I just shook my head. I heard the door open and
turned to see him getting out.
"What are you doing?" I asked.
"I'm taking you to dinner." He smiled slightly, but his eyes were hard. He stepped out of the car and
slammed the door. I fumbled with my seat belt, and then hurried to get out of the car as well. He was
waiting for me on the sidewalk.
He spoke before I could. "Go stop Jessica and Angela before I have to track them down, too. I don't
think I could restrain myself if I ran into your other friends again."
I shivered at the threat in his voice.
"Jess! Angela!" I yelled after them, waving when they turned. They rushed back to me, the pronounced
relief on both their faces simultaneously changing to surprise as they saw who I was standing next to.
They hesitated a few feet from us.
"Where have you been?" Jessica's voice was suspicious.
"I got lost," I admitted sheepishly. "And then I ran into Edward." I gestured toward him.
"Would it be all right if I joined you?" he asked in his silken, irresistible voice. I could see from their
staggered expressions that he had never unleashed his talents on them before.
"Er... sure," Jessica breathed.
"Um, actually, Bella, we already ate while we were waiting — sorry," Angela confessed.
"That's fine — I'm not hungry." I shrugged.
"I think you should eat something." Edward's voice was low, but full of authority. He looked up at Jessica
and spoke slightly louder. "Do you mind if I drive Bella home tonight? That way you won't have to wait
while she eats."
"Uh, no problem, I guess..." She bit her lip, trying to figure out from my expression whether that was
what I wanted. I winked at her. I wanted nothing more than to be alone with my perpetual savior. There
were so many questions that I couldn't bombard him with till we were by ourselves."Okay." Angela was quicker than Jessica. "See you tomorrow, Bella... Edward." She grabbed Jessica's
hand and pulled her toward the car, which I could see a little ways away, parked across First Street. As
they got in, Jess turned and waved, her face eager with curiosity. I waved back, waiting for them to drive
away before I turned to face him.
"Honestly, I'm not hungry," I insisted, looking up to scrutinize his face. His expression was unreadable.
"Humor me."
He walked to the door of the restaurant and held it open with an obstinate expression. Obviously, there
would be no further discussion. I walked past him into the restaurant with a resigned sigh.
The restaurant wasn't crowded — it was the off-season in Port Angeles. The host was female, and I
understood the look in her eyes as she assessed Edward. She welcomed him a little more warmly than
necessary. I was surprised by how much that bothered me. She was several inches taller than I was, and
unnaturally blond.
"A table for two?" His voice was alluring, whether he was aiming for that or not. I saw her eyes flicker to
me and then away, satisfied by my obvious ordinariness, and by the cautious, no-contact space Edward
kept between us. She led us to a table big enough for four in the center of the most crowded area of the
dining floor.
I was about to sit, but Edward shook his head at me.
"Perhaps something more private?" he insisted quietly to the host. I wasn't sure, but it looked like he
smoothly handed her a tip. I'd never seen anyone refuse a table except in old movies.
"Sure." She sounded as surprised as I was. She turned and led us around a partition to a small ring of
booths — all of them empty. "How's this?"
"Perfect." He flashed his gleaming smile, dazing her momentarily.
"Um" — she shook her head, blinking — "your server will be right out." She walked away unsteadily.
"You really shouldn't do that to people," I criticized. "It's hardly fair."
"Do what?"
"Dazzle them like that — she's probably hyperventilating in the kitchen right now."
He seemed confused.
"Oh, come on," I said dubiously. "You have to know the effect you have on people."
He tilted his head to one side, and his eyes were curious. "I dazzle people?"
"You haven't noticed? Do you think everybody gets their way so easily?"
He ignored my questions. "Do I dazzle you?"
"Frequently," I admitted.
And then our server arrived, her face expectant. The hostess had definitely dished behind the scenes, and
this new girl didn't look disappointed. She flipped a strand of short black hair behind one ear and smiled
with unnecessary warmth."Hello. My name is Amber, and I'll be your server tonight. What can I get you to drink?" I didn't miss
that she was speaking only to him.
He looked at me.
"I'll have a Coke." It sounded like a question.
"Two Cokes," he said.
"I'll be right back with that," she assured him with another unnecessary smile. But he didn't see it. He was
watching me.
"What?" I asked when she left.
His eyes stayed fixed on my face. "How are you feeling?"
"I'm fine," I replied, surprised by his intensity.
"You don't feel dizzy, sick, cold... ?"
"Should I?"
He chuckled at my puzzled tone.
"Well, I'm actually waiting for you to go into shock." His face twisted up into that perfect crooked smile.
"I don't think that will happen," I said after I could breathe again. "I've always been very good at
repressing unpleasant things."
"Just the same, I'll feel better when you have some sugar and food in you."
Right on cue, the waitress appeared with our drinks and a basket of breadsticks. She stood with her
back to me as she placed them on the table.
"Are you ready to order?" she asked Edward.
"Bella?" he asked. She turned unwillingly toward me.
I picked the first thing I saw on the menu. "Um... I'll have the mushroom ravioli."
"And you?" She turned back to him with a smile.
"Nothing for me," he said. Of course not.
"Let me know if you change your mind." The coy smile was still in place, but he wasn't looking at her,
and she left dissatisfied.
"Drink," he ordered.
I sipped at my soda obediently, and then drank more deeply, surprised by how thirsty I was. I realized I
had finished the whole thing when he pushed his glass toward me.
"Thanks," I muttered, still thirsty. The cold from the icy soda was radiating through my chest, and I
shivered.
"Are you cold?""It's just the Coke," I explained, shivering again.
"Don't you have a jacket?" His voice was disapproving.
"Yes." I looked at the empty bench next to me. "Oh — I left it in Jessica's car," I realized.
Edward was shrugging out of his jacket. I suddenly realized that I had never once noticed what he was
wearing — not just tonight, but ever. I just couldn't seem to look away from his face. I made myself look
now, focusing. He was removing a light beige leather jacket now; underneath he wore an ivory turtleneck
sweater. It fit him snugly, emphasizing how muscular his chest was.
He handed me the jacket, interrupting my ogling.
"Thanks," I said again, sliding my arms into his jacket. It was cold — the way my jacket felt when I first
picked it up in the morning, hanging in the drafty hallway. I shivered again. It smelled amazing. I inhaled,
trying to identify the delicious scent. It didn't smell like cologne. The sleeves were much too long; I
shoved them back so I could free my hands.
"That color blue looks lovely with your skin," he said, watching me. I was surprised; I looked down,
flushing, of course.
He pushed the bread basket toward me.
"Really, I'm not going into shock," I protested.
"You should be — a normal person would be. You don't even look shaken." He seemed unsettled. He
stared into my eyes, and I saw how light his eyes were, lighter than I'd ever seen them, golden
butterscotch.
"I feel very safe with you," I confessed, mesmerized into telling the truth again.
That displeased him; his alabaster brow furrowed. He shook his head, frowning.
"This is more complicated than I'd planned," he murmured to himself.
I picked up a breadstick and began nibbling on the end, measuring his expression. I wondered when it
would be okay to start questioning him.
"Usually you're in a better mood when your eyes are so light," I commented, trying to distract him from
whatever thought had left him frowning and somber.
He stared at me, stunned. "What?"
"You're always crabbier when your eyes are black — I expect it then," I went on. "I have a theory about
that."
His eyes narrowed. "More theories?"
"Mm-hm." I chewed on a small bite of the bread, trying to look indifferent.
"I hope you were more creative this time... or are you still stealing from comic books?" His faint smile
was mocking; his eyes were still tight.
"Well, no, I didn't get it from a comic book, but I didn't come up with it on my own, either," I confessed."And?" he prompted.
But then the waitress strode around the partition with my food. I realized we'd been unconsciously
leaning toward each other across the table, because we both straightened up as she approached. She set
the dish in front of me — it looked pretty good — and turned quickly to Edward.
"Did you change your mind?" she asked. "Isn't there anything I can get you?" I may have been imagining
the double meaning in her words.
"No, thank you, but some more soda would be nice." He gestured with a long white hand to the empty
cups in front of me.
"Sure." She removed the empty glasses and walked away.
"You were saying?" he asked.
"I'll tell you about it in the car. If..." I paused.
"There are conditions?" He raised one eyebrow, his voice ominous.
"I do have a few questions, of course."
"Of course."
The waitress was back with two more Cokes. She sat them down without a word this time, and left
again.
I took a sip.
"Well, go ahead," he pushed, his voice still hard.
I started with the most undemanding. Or so I thought. "Why are you in Port Angeles?"
He looked down, folding his large hands together slowly on the table. His eyes flickered up at me from
under his lashes, the hint of a smirk on his face.
"Next."
"But that's the easiest one," I objected.
"Next," he repeated.
I looked down, frustrated. I unrolled my silverware, picked up my fork, and carefully speared a ravioli. I
put it in my mouth slowly, still looking down, chewing while I thought. The mushrooms were good. I
swallowed and took another sip of Coke before I looked up.
"Okay, then." I glared at him, and continued slowly. "Let's say, hypothetically of course, that...
someone... could know what people are thinking, read minds, you know — with a few exceptions."
"Just one exception," he corrected, "hypothetically."
"All right, with one exception, then." I was thrilled that he was playing along, but I tried to seem casual.
"How does that work? What are the limitations? How would... that someone... find someone else at
exactly the right time? How would he know she was in trouble?" I wondered if my convoluted questions
even made sense."Hypothetically?" he asked.
"Sure."
"Well, if... that someone..."
"Let's call him 'Joe,'" I suggested.
He smiled wryly. "Joe, then. If Joe had been paying attention, the timing wouldn't have needed to be quite
so exact." He shook his head, rolling his eyes. "Only you could get into trouble in a town this small. You
would have devastated their crime rate statistics for a decade, you know."
"We were speaking of a hypothetical case," I reminded him frostily.
He laughed at me, his eyes warm.
"Yes, we were," he agreed. "Shall we call you 'Jane'?"
"How did you know?" I asked, unable to curb my intensity. I realized I was leaning toward him again.
He seemed to be wavering, torn by some internal dilemma. His eyes locked with mine, and I guessed he
was making the decision right then whether or not to simply tell me the truth.
"You can trust me, you know," I murmured. I reached forward, without thinking, to touch his folded
hands, but he slid them away minutely, and I pulled my hand back.
"I don't know if I have a choice anymore." His voice was almost a whisper. "I was wrong — you're much
more observant than I gave you credit for."
"I thought you were always right."
"I used to be." He shook his head again. "I was wrong about you on one other thing, as well. You're not
a magnet for accidents — that's not a broad enough classification. You are a magnet for trouble. If there
is anything dangerous within a ten-mile radius, it will invariably find you."
"And you put yourself into that category?" I guessed.
His face turned cold, expressionless. "Unequivocally."
I stretched my hand across the table again — ignoring him when he pulled back slightly once more — to
touch the back of his hand shyly with my fingertips. His skin was cold and hard, like a stone.
"Thank you." My voice was fervent with gratitude. "That's twice now."
His face softened. "Let's not try for three, agreed?"
I scowled, but nodded. He moved his hand out from under mine, placing both of his under the table. But
he leaned toward me.
"I followed you to Port Angeles," he admitted, speaking in a rush. "I've never tried to keep a specific
person alive before, and it's much more troublesome than I would have believed. But that's probably just
because it's you. Ordinary people seem to make it through the day without so many catastrophes." He
paused. I wondered if it should bother me that he was following me; instead I felt a strange surge of
pleasure. He stared, maybe wondering why my lips were curving into an involuntary smile."Did you ever think that maybe my number was up the first time, with the van, and that you've been
interfering with fate?" I speculated, distracting myself.
"That wasn't the first time," he said, and his voice was hard to hear. I stared at him in amazement, but he
was looking down. "Your number was up the first time I met you."
I felt a spasm of fear at his words, and the abrupt memory of his violent black glare that first day... but
the overwhelming sense of safety I felt in his presence stifled it. By the time he looked up to read my
eyes, there was no trace of fear in them.
"You remember?" he asked, his angel's face grave.
"Yes." I was calm.
"And yet here you sit." There was a trace of disbelief in his voice; he raised one eyebrow.
"Yes, here I sit... because of you." I paused. "Because somehow you knew how to find me today... ?" I
prompted.
He pressed his lips together, staring at me through narrowed eyes, deciding again. His eyes flashed down
to my full plate, and then back to me.
"You eat, I'll talk," he bargained.
I quickly scooped up another ravioli and popped it in my mouth.
"It's harder than it should be — keeping track of you. Usually I can find someone very easily, once I've
heard their mind before." He looked at me anxiously, and I realized I had frozen. I made myself swallow,
then stabbed another ravioli and tossed it in.
"I was keeping tabs on Jessica, not carefully — like I said, only you could find trouble in Port Angeles —
and at first I didn't notice when you took off on your own. Then, when I realized that you weren't with
her anymore, I went looking for you at the bookstore I saw in her head. I could tell that you hadn't gone
in, and that you'd gone south... and I knew you would have to turn around soon. So I was just waiting
for you, randomly searching through the thoughts of people on the street — to see if anyone had noticed
you so I would know where you were. I had no reason to be worried... but I was strangely anxious..."
He was lost in thought, staring past me, seeing things I couldn't imagine.
"I started to drive in circles, still... listening. The sun was finally setting, and I was about to get out and
follow you on foot. And then —" He stopped, clenching his teeth together in sudden fury. He made an
effort to calm himself.
"Then what?" I whispered. He continued to stare over my head.
"I heard what they were thinking," he growled, his upper lip curling slightly back over his teeth. "I saw
your face in his mind." He suddenly leaned forward, one elbow appearing on the table, his hand covering
his eyes. The movement was so swift it startled me.
"It was very... hard — you can't imagine how hard — for me to simply take you away, and leave
them... alive." His voice was muffled by his arm. "I could have let you go with Jessica and Angela, but I
was afraid if you left me alone, I would go looking for them," he admitted in a whisper.
I sat quietly, dazed, my thoughts incoherent. My hands were folded in my lap, and I was leaning weakly
against the back of the seat. He still had his face in his hand, and he was as still as if he'd been carvedfrom the stone his skin resembled.
Finally he looked up, his eyes seeking mine, full of his own questions.
"Are you ready to go home?" he asked.
"I'm ready to leave," I qualified, overly grateful that we had the hour-long ride home together. I wasn't
ready to say goodbye to him.
The waitress appeared as if she'd been called. Or watching.
"How are we doing?" she asked Edward.
"We're ready for the check, thank you." His voice was quiet, rougher, still reflecting the strain of our
conversation. It seemed to muddle her. He looked up, waiting.
"S-sure," she stuttered. "Here you go." She pulled a small leather folder from the front pocket of her
black apron and handed it to him.
There was a bill in his hand already. He slipped it into the folder and handed it right back to her.
"No change." He smiled. Then he stood up, and I scrambled awkwardly to my feet.
She smiled invitingly at him again. "You have a nice evening."
He didn't look away from me as he thanked her. I suppressed a smile.
He walked close beside me to the door, still careful not to touch me. I remembered what Jessica had
said about her relationship with Mike, how they were almost to the first-kiss stage. I sighed. Edward
seemed to hear me, and he looked down curiously. I looked at the sidewalk, grateful that he didn't seem
to be able to know what I was thinking.
He opened the passenger door, holding it for me as I stepped in, shutting it softly behind me. I watched
him walk around the front of the car, amazed, yet again, by how graceful he was. I probably should have
been used to that by now — but I wasn't. I had a feeling Edward wasn't the kind of person anyone got
used to.
Once inside the car, he started the engine and turned the heater on high. It had gotten very cold, and I
guessed the good weather was at an end. I was warm in his jacket, though, breathing in the scent of it
when I thought he couldn't see.
Edward pulled out through the traffic, apparently without a glance, flipping around to head toward the
freeway.
"Now," he said significantly, "it's your turn."
9. THEORY
"Can I ask just one more?" I pleaded as Edward accelerated much too quickly down the quiet street. He
didn't seem to be paying any attention to the road.
He sighed."One," he agreed. His lips pressed together into a cautious line.
"Well... you said you knew I hadn't gone into the bookstore, and that I had gone south. I was just
wondering how you knew that."
He looked away, deliberating.
"I thought we were past all the evasiveness," I grumbled.
He almost smiled.
"Fine, then. I followed your scent." He looked at the road, giving me time to compose my face. I couldn't
think of an acceptable response to that, but I filed it carefully away for future study. I tried to refocus. I
wasn't ready to let him be finished, now that he was finally explaining things.
"And then you didn't answer one of my first questions..." I stalled.
He looked at me with disapproval. "Which one?"
"How does it work — the mind-reading thing? Can you read anybody's mind, anywhere? How do you
do it? Can the rest of your family... ?" I felt silly, asking for clarification on make-believe.
"That's more than one," he pointed out. I simply intertwined my fingers and gazed at him, waiting.
"No, it's just me. And I can't hear anyone, anywhere. I have to be fairly close. The more familiar
someone's... 'voice' is, the farther away I can hear them. But still, no more than a few miles." He paused
thoughtfully. "It's a little like being in a huge hall filled with people, everyone talking at once. It's just a hum
— a buzzing of voices in the background. Until I focus on one voice, and then what they're thinking is
clear.
"Most of the time I tune it all out — it can be very distracting. And then it's easier to seem normal" —
he frowned as he said the word — "when I'm not accidentally answering someone's thoughts rather than
their words."
"Why do you think you can't hear me?" I asked curiously.
He looked at me, his eyes enigmatic.
"I don't know," he murmured. "The only guess I have is that maybe your mind doesn't work the same
way the rest of theirs do. Like your thoughts are on the AM frequency and I'm only getting FM." He
grinned at me, suddenly amused.
"My mind doesn't work right? I'm a freak?" The words bothered me more than they should — probably
because his speculation hit home. I'd always suspected as much, and it embarrassed me to have it
confirmed.
"I hear voices in my mind and you're worried that you're the freak," he laughed. "Don't worry, it's just a
theory..." His face tightened. "Which brings us back to you."
I sighed. How to begin?
"Aren't we past all the evasions now?" he reminded me softly.
I looked away from his face for the first time, trying to find words. I happened to notice the speedometer."Holy crow!" I shouted. "Slow down!"
"What's wrong?" He was startled. But the car didn't decelerate.
"You're going a hundred miles an hour!" I was still shouting. I shot a panicky glance out the window, but
it was too dark to see much. The road was only visible in the long patch of bluish brightness from the
headlights. The forest along both sides of the road was like a black wall — as hard as a wall of steel if
we veered off the road at this speed.
"Relax, Bella." He rolled his eyes, still not slowing.
"Are you trying to kill us?" I demanded.
"We're not going to crash."
I tried to modulate my voice. "Why are you in such a hurry?"
"I always drive like this." He turned to smile crookedly at me.
"Keep your eyes on the road!"
"I've never been in an accident, Bella — I've never even gotten a ticket." He grinned and tapped his
forehead. "Built-in radar detector."
"Very funny." I fumed. "Charlie's a cop, remember? I was raised to abide by traffic laws. Besides, if you
turn us into a Volvo pretzel around a tree trunk, you can probably just walk away."
"Probably," he agreed with a short, hard laugh. "But you can't." He sighed, and I watched with relief as
the needle gradually drifted toward eighty. "Happy?"
"Almost."
"I hate driving slow," he muttered.
"This is slow?"
"Enough commentary on my driving," he snapped. "I'm still waiting for your latest theory."
I bit my lip. He looked down at me, his honey eyes unexpectedly gentle.
"I won't laugh," he promised.
"I'm more afraid that you'll be angry with me."
"Is it that bad?"
"Pretty much, yeah."
He waited. I was looking down at my hands, so I couldn't see his expression.
"Go ahead." His voice was calm.
"I don't know how to start," I admitted.
"Why don't you start at the beginning... you said you didn't come up with this on your own.""No."
"What got you started — a book? A movie?" he probed.
"No — it was Saturday, at the beach." I risked a glance up at his face. He looked puzzled.
"I ran into an old family friend —Jacob Black," I continued. "His dad and Charlie have been friends since
I was a baby."
He still looked confused.
"His dad is one of the Quileute elders." I watched him carefully. His confused expression froze in place.
"We went for a walk —" I edited all my scheming out of the story "— and he was telling me some old
legends — trying to scare me, I think. He told me one..." I hesitated.
"Go on," he said.
"About vampires." I realized I was whispering. I couldn't look at his face now. But I saw his knuckles
tighten convulsively on the wheel.
"And you immediately thought of me?" Still calm.
"No. He... mentioned your family."
He was silent, staring at the road.
I was worried suddenly, worried about protecting Jacob.
"He just thought it was a silly superstition," I said quickly. "He didn't expect me to think anything of it." It
didn't seem like enough; I had to confess. "It was my fault, I forced him to tell me."
"Why?"
"Lauren said something about you — she was trying to provoke me. And an older boy from the tribe
said your family didn't come to the reservation, only it sounded like he meant something different. So I
got Jacob alone and I tricked it out of him," I admitted, hanging my head.
He startled me by laughing. I glared up at him. He was laughing, but his eyes were fierce, staring ahead.
"Tricked him how?" he asked.
"I tried to flirt — it worked better than I thought it would." Disbelief colored my tone as I remembered.
"I'd like to have seen that." He chuckled darkly. "And you accused me of dazzling people — poor Jacob
Black."
I blushed and looked out my window into the night.
"What did you do then?" he asked after a minute.
"I did some research on the Internet."
"And did that convince you?" His voice sounded barely interested. But his hands were clamped hard
onto the steering wheel.
"No. Nothing fit. Most of it was kind of silly. And then..." I stopped."What?"
"I decided it didn't matter," I whispered.
"It didn't matter?" His tone made me look up — I had finally broken through his carefully composed
mask. His face was incredulous, with just a hint of the anger I'd feared.
"No," I said softly. "It doesn't matter to me what you are."
A hard, mocking edge entered his voice. "You don't care if I'm a monster? If I'm not human!"
"No."
He was silent, staring straight ahead again. His face was bleak and cold.
"You're angry," I sighed. "I shouldn't have said anything."
"No," he said, but his tone was as hard as his face. "I'd rather know what you're thinking — even if what
you're thinking is insane."
"So I'm wrong again?" I challenged.
"That's not what I was referring to. 'It doesn't matter'!" he quoted, gritting his teeth together.
"I'm right?" I gasped.
"Does it matter?"
I took a deep breath.
"Not really." I paused. "But I am curious." My voice, at least, was composed.
He was suddenly resigned. "What are you curious about?"
"How old are you?"
"Seventeen," he answered promptly.
"And how long have you been seventeen?"
His lips twitched as he stared at the road. "A while," he admitted at last.
"Okay." I smiled, pleased that he was still being honest with me. He stared down at me with watchful
eyes, much as he had before, when he was worried I would go into shock. I smiled wider in
encouragement, and he frowned.
"Don't laugh — but how can you come out during the daytime?"
He laughed anyway. "Myth."
"Burned by the sun?"
"Myth."
"Sleeping in coffins?"
"Myth." He hesitated for a moment, and a peculiar tone entered his voice. "I can't sleep."It took me a minute to absorb that. "At all?"
"Never," he said, his voice nearly inaudible. He turned to look at me with a wistful expression. The
golden eyes held mine, and I lost my train of thought. I stared at him until he looked away.
"You haven't asked me the most important question yet." His voice was hard now, and when he looked
at me again his eyes were cold.
I blinked, still dazed. "Which one is that?"
"You aren't concerned about my diet?" he asked sarcastically.
"Oh," I murmured, "that."
"Yes, that." His voice was bleak. "Don't you want to know if I drink blood?"
I flinched. "Well, Jacob said something about that."
"What did Jacob say?" he asked flatly.
"He said you didn't... hunt people. He said your family wasn't supposed to be dangerous because you
only hunted animals."
"He said we weren't dangerous?" His voice was deeply skeptical.
"Not exactly. He said you weren't supposed to be dangerous. But the Quileutes still didn't want you on
their land, just in case."
He looked forward, but I couldn't tell if he was watching the road or not.
"So was he right? About not hunting people?" I tried to keep my voice as even as possible.
"The Quileutes have a long memory," he whispered.
I took it as a confirmation.
"Don't let that make you complacent, though," he warned me. "They're right to keep their distance from
us. We are still dangerous."
"I don't understand."
"We try," he explained slowly. "We're usually very good at what we do. Sometimes we make mistakes.
Me, for example, allowing myself to be alone with you."
"This is a mistake?" I heard the sadness in my voice, but I didn't know if he could as well.
"A very dangerous one," he murmured.
We were both silent then. I watched the headlights twist with the curves of the road. They moved too
fast; it didn't look real, it looked like a video game. I was aware of the time slipping away so quickly, like
the black road beneath us, and I was hideously afraid that I would never have another chance to be with
him like this again — openly, the walls between us gone for once. His words hinted at an end, and I
recoiled from the idea. I couldn't waste one minute I had with him.
"Tell me more," I asked desperately, not caring what he said, just so I could hear his voice again.He looked at me quickly, startled by the change in my tone. "What more do you want to know?"
"Tell me why you hunt animals instead of people," I suggested, my voice still tinged with desperation. I
realized my eyes were wet, and I fought against the grief that was trying to overpower me.
"I don't want to be a monster." His voice was very low.
"But animals aren't enough?"
He paused. "I can't be sure, of course, but I'd compare it to living on tofu and soy milk; we call ourselves
vegetarians, our little inside joke. It doesn't completely satiate the hunger — or rather thirst. But it keens
us strong enough to resist. Most of the time." His tone turned ominous. "Sometimes it's more difficult than
others."
"Is it very difficult for you now?" I asked.
He sighed. "Yes."
"But you're not hungry now," I said confidently — stating, not asking.
"Why do you think that?"
"Your eyes. I told you I had a theory. I've noticed that people — men in particular — are crabbier when
they're hungry."
He chuckled. "You are observant, aren't you?"
I didn't answer; I just listened to the sound of his laugh, committing it to memory.
"Were you hunting this weekend, with Emmett?" I asked when it was quiet again.
"Yes." He paused for a second, as if deciding whether or not to say something. "I didn't want to leave,
but it was necessary. It's a bit easier to be around you when I'm not thirsty."
"Why didn't you want to leave?"
"It makes me... anxious... to be away from you." His eyes were gentle but intense, and they seemed to
be making my bones turn soft. "I wasn't joking when I asked you to try not to fall in the ocean or get run
over last Thursday. I was distracted all weekend, worrying about you. And after what happened tonight,
I'm surprised that you did make it through a whole weekend unscathed." He shook his head, and then
seemed to remember something. "Well, not totally unscathed."
"What?"
"Your hands," he reminded me. I looked down at my palms, at the almost-healed scrapes across the
heels of my hands. His eyes missed nothing.
"I fell," I sighed.
"That's what I thought." His lips curved up at the corners. "I suppose, being you, it could have been much
worse — and that possibility tormented me the entire time I was away. It was a very long three days. I
really got on Emmett's nerves." He smiled ruefully at me.
"Three days? Didn't you just get back today?""No, we got back Sunday."
"Then why weren't any of you in school?" I was frustrated, almost angry as I thought of how much
disappointment I had suffered because of his absence.
"Well, you asked if the sun hurt me, and it doesn't. But I can't go out in the sunlight — at least, not where
anyone can see."
"Why?"
"I'll show you sometime," he promised.
I thought about it for a moment.
"You might have called me," I decided.
He was puzzled. "But I knew you were safe."
"But I didn't know where you were. I —" I hesitated, dropping my eyes.
"What?" His velvety voice was compelling.
"I didn't like it. Not seeing you. It makes me anxious, too." I blushed to be saying this out loud.
He was quiet. I glanced up, apprehensive, and saw that his expression was pained.
"Ah," he groaned quietly. "This is wrong."
I couldn't understand his response. "What did I say?"
"Don't you see, Bella? It's one thing for me to make myself miserable, but a wholly other thing for you to
be so involved." He turned his anguished eyes to the road, his words flowing almost too fast for me to
understand. "I don't want to hear that you feel that way." His voice was low but urgent. His words cut
me. "It's wrong. It's not safe. I'm dangerous, Bella — please, grasp that."
"No." I tried very hard not to look like a sulky child.
"I'm serious," he growled.
"So am I. I told you, it doesn't matter what you are. It's too late."
His voice whipped out, low and harsh. "Never say that."
I bit my lip and was glad he couldn't know how much that hurt. I stared out at the road. We must be
close now. He was driving much too fast.
"What are you thinking?" he asked, his voice still raw. I just shook my head, not sure if I could speak. I
could feel his gaze on my face, but I kept my eyes forward.
"Are you crying?" He sounded appalled. I hadn't realized the moisture in my eyes had brimmed over. I
quickly rubbed my hand across my cheek, and sure enough, traitor tears were there, betraying me.
"No," I said, but my voice cracked.
I saw him reach toward me hesitantly with his right hand, but then he stopped and placed it slowly back
on the steering wheel."I'm sorry." His voice burned with regret. I knew he wasn't just apologizing for the words that had upset
me.
The darkness slipped by us in silence.
"Tell me something," he asked after another minute, and I could hear him struggle to use a lighter tone.
"Yes?"
"What were you thinking tonight, just before I came around the corner? I couldn't understand your
expression — you didn't look that scared, you looked like you were concentrating very hard on
something."
"I was trying to remember how to incapacitate an attacker — you know, self-defense. I was going to
smash his nose into his brain." I thought of the dark-haired man with a surge of hate.
"You were going to fight them?" This upset him. "Didn't you think about running?"
"I fall down a lot when I run," I admitted.
"What about screaming for help?"
"I was getting to that part."
He shook his head. "You were right — I'm definitely fighting fate trying to keep you alive."
I sighed. We were slowing, passing into the boundaries of Forks. It had taken less than twenty minutes.
"Will I see you tomorrow?" I demanded.
"Yes — I have a paper due, too." He smiled. "I'll save you a seat at lunch."
It was silly, after everything we'd been through tonight, how that little promise sent flutters through my
stomach, and made me unable to speak.
We were in front of Charlie's house. The lights were on, my truck in its place, everything utterly normal. It
was like waking from a dream. He stopped the car, but I didn't move.
"Do you promise to be there tomorrow?"
"I promise."
I considered that for a moment, then nodded. I pulled his jacket off, taking one last whiff.
"You can keep it — you don't have a jacket for tomorrow," he reminded me.
I handed it back to him. "I don't want to have to explain to Charlie."
"Oh, right." He grinned.
I hesitated, my hand on the door handle, trying to prolong the moment.
"Bella?" he asked in a different tone — serious, but hesitant.
"Yes?" I turned back to him too eagerly."Will you promise me something?"
"Yes," I said, and instantly regretted my unconditional agreement. What if he asked me to stay away from
him? I couldn't keep that promise.
"Don't go into the woods alone."
I stared at him in blank confusion. "Why?"
He frowned, and his eyes were tight as he stared past me out the window.
"I'm not always the most dangerous thing out there. Let's leave it at that."
I shuddered slightly at the sudden bleakness in his voice, but I was relieved. This, at least, was an easy
promise to honor. "Whatever you say."
"I'll see you tomorrow," he sighed, and I knew he wanted me to leave now.
"Tomorrow, then." I opened the door unwillingly.
"Bella?" I turned and he was leaning toward me, his pale, glorious face just inches from mine. My heart
stopped beating.
"Sleep well," he said. His breath blew in my face, stunning me. It was the same exquisite scent that clung
to his jacket, but in a more concentrated form. I blinked, thoroughly dazed. He leaned away.
I was unable to move until my brain had somewhat unscrambled itself. Then I stepped out of the car
awkwardly, having to use the frame for support. I thought I heard him chuckle, but the sound was too
quiet for me to be certain.
He waited till I had stumbled to the front door, and then I heard his engine quietly rev. I turned to watch
the silver car disappear around the corner. I realized it was very cold.
I reached for the key mechanically, unlocked the door, and stepped inside.
Charlie called from the living room. "Bella?"
"Yeah, Dad, it's me." I walked in to see him. He was watching a baseball game.
"You're home early."
"Am I?" I was surprised.
"It's not even eight yet," he told me. "Did you girls have fun?"
"Yeah — it was lots of fun." My head was spinning as I tried to remember all the way back to the girls'
night out I had planned. "They both found dresses."
"Are you all right?"
"I'm just tired. I did a lot of walking."
"Well, maybe you should go lie down." He sounded concerned. I wondered what my face looked like.
"I'm just going to call Jessica first.""Weren't you just with her?" he asked, surprised.
"Yes — but I left my jacket in her car. I want to make sure she brings it tomorrow."
"Well, give her a chance to get home first."
"Right," I agreed.
I went to the kitchen and fell, exhausted, into a chair. I was really feeling dizzy now. I wondered if I was
going to go into shock after all. Get a grip, I told myself.
The phone rang suddenly, startling me. I yanked it off the hook.
"Hello?" I asked breathlessly.
"Bella?"
"Hey, Jess, I was just going to call you."
"You made it home?" Her voice was relieved... and surprised.
"Yes. I left my jacket in your car — could you bring it to me tomorrow?"
"Sure. But tell me what happened!" she demanded.
"Um, tomorrow — in Trig, okay?"
She caught on quickly. "Oh, is your dad there?"
"Yes, that's right."
"Okay, I'll talk to you tomorrow, then. Bye!" I could hear the impatience in her voice.
"Bye, Jess."
I walked up the stairs slowly, a heavy stupor clouding my mind. I went through the motions of getting
ready for bed without paying any attention to what I was doing. It wasn't until I was in the shower — the
water too hot, burning my skin — that I realized I was freezing. I shuddered violently for several minutes
before the steaming spray could finally relax my rigid muscles. Then I stood in the shower, too tired to
move, until the hot water began to run out.
I stumbled out, wrapping myself securely in a towel, trying to hold the heat from the water in so the
aching shivers wouldn't return. I dressed for bed swiftly and climbed under my quilt, curling into a ball,
hugging myself to keep warm. A few small shudders trembled through me.
My mind still swirled dizzily, full of images I couldn't understand, and some I fought to repress. Nothing
seemed clear at first, but as I fell gradually closer to unconsciousness, a few certainties became evident.
About three things I was absolutely positive. First, Edward was a vampire. Second, there was part of
him — and I didn't know how potent that part might be — that thirsted for my blood. And third, I was
unconditionally and irrevocably in love with him.
10. INTERROGATIONSIt was very hard, in the morning, to argue with the part of me that was sure last night was a dream. Logic
wasn't on my side, or common sense. I clung to the parts I couldn't have imagined — like his smell. I was
sure I could never have dreamed that up on my own.
It was foggy and dark outside my window, absolutely perfect. He had no reason not to be in school
today. I dressed in my heavy clothes, remembering I didn't have a jacket. Further proof that my memory
was real.
When I got downstairs, Charlie was gone again — I was running later than I'd realized. I swallowed a
granola bar in three bites, chased it down with milk straight from the carton, and then hurried out the
door. Hopefully the rain would hold off until I could find Jessica.
It was unusually foggy; the air was almost smoky with it. The mist was ice cold where it clung to the
exposed skin on my face and neck. I couldn't wait to get the heat going in my truck. It was such a thick
fog that I was a few feet down the driveway before I realized there was a car in it: a silver car. My heart
thudded, stuttered, and then picked up again in double time.
I didn't see where he came from, but suddenly he was there, pulling the door open for me.
"Do you want to ride with me today?" he asked, amused by my expression as he caught me by surprise
yet again. There was uncertainty in his voice. He was really giving me a choice — I was free to refuse,
and part of him hoped for that. It was a vain hope.
"Yes, thank you," I said, trying to keep my voice calm. As I stepped into the warm car, I noticed his tan
jacket was slung over the headrest of the passenger seat. The door closed behind me, and, sooner than
should be possible, he was sitting next to me, starting the car.
"I brought the jacket for you. I didn't want you to get sick or something." His voice was guarded. I
noticed that he wore no jacket himself, just a light gray knit V-neck shirt with long sleeves. Again, the
fabric clung to his perfectly muscled chest. It was a colossal tribute to his face that it kept my eyes away
from his body.
"I'm not quite that delicate," I said, but I pulled the jacket onto my lap, pushing my arms through the
too-long sleeves, curious to see if the scent could possibly be as good as I remembered. It was better.
"Aren't you?" he contradicted in a voice so low I wasn't sure if he meant for me to hear.
We drove through the fog-shrouded streets, always too fast, feeling awkward. I was, at least. Last night
all the walls were down... almost all. I didn't know if we were still being as candid today. It left me
tongue-tied. I waited for him to speak.
He turned to smirk at me. "What, no twenty questions today?"
"Do my questions bother you?" I asked, relieved.
"Not as much as your reactions do." He looked like he was joking, but I couldn't be sure.
I frowned. "Do I react badly?"
"No, that's the problem. You take everything so coolly — it's unnatural. It makes me wonder what you're
really thinking."
"I always tell you what I'm really thinking.""You edit," he accused.
"Not very much."
"Enough to drive me insane."
"You don't want to hear it," I mumbled, almost whispered. As soon as the words were out, I regretted
them. The pain in my voice was very faint; I could only hope he hadn't noticed it.
He didn't respond, and I wondered if I had ruined the mood. His face was unreadable as we drove into
the school parking lot. Something occurred to me belatedly.
"Where's the rest of your family?" I asked — more than glad to be alone with him, but remembering that
his car was usually full.
"They took Rosalie's car." He shrugged as he parked next to a glossy red convertible with the top up.
"Ostentatious, isn't it?"
"Um, wow," I breathed. "If she has that, why does she ride with you?"
"Like I said, it's ostentatious. We try to blend in."
"You don't succeed." I laughed and shook my head as we got out of the car. I wasn't late anymore; his
lunatic driving had gotten me to school in plenty of time. "So why did Rosalie drive today if it's more
conspicuous?"
"Hadn't you noticed? I'm breaking all the rules now." He met me at the front of the car, staying very
close to my side as we walked onto campus. I wanted to close that little distance, to reach out and touch
him, but I was afraid he wouldn't like me to.
"Why do you have cars like that at all?" I wondered aloud. "If you're looking for privacy?"
"An indulgence," he admitted with an impish smile. "We all like to drive fast."
"Figures," I muttered under my breath.
Under the shelter of the cafeteria roof's overhang, Jessica was waiting, her eyes about to bug out of their
sockets. Over her arm, bless her, was my jacket.
"Hey, Jessica," I said when we were a few feet away. "Thanks for remembering." She handed me my
jacket without speaking.
"Good morning, Jessica," Edward said politely. It wasn't really his fault that his voice was so irresistible.
Or what his eyes were capable of.
"Er... hi." She shifted her wide eyes to me, trying to gather her jumbled thoughts. "I guess I'll see you in
Trig." She gave me a meaningful look, and I suppressed a sigh. What on earth was I going to tell her?
"Yeah, I'll see you then."
She walked away, pausing twice to peek back over her shoulder at us.
"What are you going to tell her?" Edward murmured.
"Hey, I thought you couldn't read my mind!" I hissed."I can't," he said, startled. Then understanding brightened his eyes. "However, I can read hers — she'll be
waiting to ambush you in class."
I groaned as I pulled off his jacket and handed it to him, replacing it with my own. He folded it over his
arm.
"So what are you going to tell her?"
"A little help?" I pleaded. "What does she want to know?"
He shook his head, grinning wickedly. "That's not fair."
"No, you not sharing what you know — now that's not fair."
He deliberated for a moment as we walked. We stopped outside the door to my first class.
"She wants to know if we're secretly dating. And she wants to know how you feel about me," he finally
said.
"Yikes. What should I say?" I tried to keep my expression very innocent. People were passing us on their
way to class, probably staring, but I was barely aware of them.
"Hmmm." He paused to catch a stray lock of hair that was escaping the twist on my neck and wound it
back into place. My heart spluttered hyperactively. "I suppose you could say yes to the first... if you
don't mind — it's easier than any other explanation."
"I don't mind," I said in a faint voice.
"And as for her other question... well, I'll be listening to hear the answer to that one myself." One side of
his mouth pulled up into my favorite uneven smile. I couldn't catch my breath soon enough to respond to
that remark. He turned and walked away.
"I'll see you at lunch," he called over his shoulder. Three people walking in the door stopped to stare at
me.
I hurried into class, flushed and irritated. He was such a cheater. Now I was even more worried about
what I was going to say to Jessica. I sat in my usual seat, slamming my bag down in aggravation.
"Morning, Bella," Mike said from the seat next to me. I looked up to see an odd, almost resigned look on
his face. "How was Port Angeles?"
"It was..." There was no honest way to sum it up. "Great," I finished lamely. "Jessica got a really cute
dress."
"Did she say anything about Monday night?" he asked, his eyes brightening. I smiled at the turn the
conversation had taken.
"She said she had a really good time," I assured him.
"She did?" he said eagerly.
"Most definitely."
Mr. Mason called the class to order then, asking us to turn in our papers. English and then Government
passed in a blur, while I worried about how to explain things to Jessica and agonized over whetherEdward would really be listening to what I said through the medium of Jess's thoughts. How very
inconvenient his little talent could be — when it wasn't saving my life.
The fog had almost dissolved by the end of the second hour, but the day was still dark with low,
oppressing clouds. I smiled up at the sky.
Edward was right, of course. When I walked into Trig Jessica was sitting in the back row, nearly
bouncing off her seat in agitation. I reluctantly went to sit by her, trying to convince myself it would be
better to get it over with as soon as possible.
"Tell me everything!" she commanded before I was in the seat.
"What do you want to know?" I hedged.
"What happened last night?"
"He bought me dinner, and then he drove me home."
She glared at me, her expression stiff with skepticism. "How did you get home so fast?"
"He drives like a maniac. It was terrifying." I hoped he heard that.
"Was it like a date — did you tell him to meet you there?"
I hadn't thought of that. "No — I was very surprised to see him there."
Her lips puckered in disappointment at the transparent honesty in my voice.
"But he picked you up for school today?" she probed.
"Yes — that was a surprise, too. He noticed I didn't have a jacket last night," I explained.
"So are you going out again?"
"He offered to drive me to Seattle Saturday because he thinks toy truck isn't up to it — does that count?"
"Yes." She nodded.
"Well, then, yes."
"W-o-w." She exaggerated the word into three syllables. "Edward Cullen."
"I know," I agreed. "Wow" didn't even cover it.
"Wait!" Her hands flew up, palms toward me like she was stopping traffic. "Has he kissed you?"
"No," I mumbled. "It's not like that."
She looked disappointed. I'm sure I did, too.
"Do you think Saturday... ?" She raised her eyebrows.
"I really doubt it." The discontent in my voice was poorly disguised.
"What did you talk about?" She pushed for more information in a whisper. Class had started but Mr.
Varner wasn't paying close attention and we weren't the only ones still talking."I don't know, Jess, lots of stuff," I whispered back. "We talked about the English essay a little." A very,
very little. I think he mentioned it in passing.
"Please, Bella," she begged. "Give me some details."
"Well... okay, I've got one. You should have seen the waitress flirting with him — it was over the top.
But he didn't pay any attention to her at all." Let him make what he could of that.
"That's a good sign," she nodded. "Was she pretty?"
"Very — and probably nineteen or twenty."
"Even better. He must like you."
"I think so, but it's hard to tell. He's always so cryptic," I threw in for his benefit, sighing.
"I don't know how you're brave enough to be alone with him," she breathed.
"Why?" I was shocked, but she didn't understand my reaction.
"He's so... intimidating. I wouldn't know what to say to him." She made a face, probably remembering
this morning or last night, when he'd turned the overwhelming force of his eyes on her.
"I do have some trouble with incoherency when I'm around him," I admitted.
"Oh well. He is unbelievably gorgeous." Jessica shrugged as if this excused any flaws. Which, in her
book, it probably did.
"There's a lot more to him than that."
"Really? Like what?"
I wished I had let it go. Almost as much as I was hoping he'd been kidding about listening in.
"I can't explain it right... but he's even more unbelievable behind the face." The vampire who wanted to
be good — who ran around saving people's lives so he wouldn't be a monster... I stared toward the
front of the room.
"Is that possible?" She giggled.
I ignored her, trying to look like I was paying attention to Mr. Varner.
"So you like him, then?" She wasn't about to give up.
"Yes," I said curtly.
"I mean, do you really like him?" she urged.
"Yes," I said again, blushing. I hoped that detail wouldn't register in her thoughts.
She'd had enough with the single syllable answers. "How much do you like him?"
"Too much," I whispered back. "More than he likes me. But I don't see how I can help that." I sighed,
one blush blending into the next.
Then, thankfully, Mr. Varner called on Jessica for an answer.She didn't get a chance to start on the subject again during class, and as soon as the bell rang, I took
evasive action.
"In English, Mike asked me if you said anything about Monday night," I told her.
"You're kidding! What did you say?!" she gasped, completely sidetracked.
"I told him you said you had a lot of fun — he looked pleased."
"Tell me exactly what he said, and your exact answer!"
We spent the rest of the walk dissecting sentence structures and most of Spanish on a minute description
of Mike's facial expressions. I wouldn't have helped draw it out for as long as I did if I wasn't worried
about the subject returning to me.
And then the bell rang for lunch. As I jumped up out of my seat, shoving my books roughly in my bag,
my uplifted expression must have tipped Jessica off.
"You're not sitting with us today, are you?" she guessed.
"I don't think so." I couldn't be sure that he wouldn't disappear inconveniently again.
But outside the door to our Spanish class, leaning against the wall — looking more like a Greek god than
anyone had a right to — Edward was waiting for me. Jessica took one look, rolled her eyes, and
departed.
"See you later, Bella." Her voice was thick with implications. I might have to turn off the ringer on the
phone.
"Hello." His voice was amused and irritated at the same time. He had been listening, it was obvious.
"Hi."
I couldn't think of anything else to say, and he didn't speak — biding his time, I presumed — so it was a
quiet walk to the cafeteria. Walking with Edward through the crowded lunchtime rush was a lot like my
first day here; everyone stared.
He led the way into the line, still not speaking, though his eyes returned to my face every few seconds,
their expression speculative. It seemed to me that irritation was winning out over amusement as the
dominant emotion in his face. I fidgeted nervously with the zipper on my jacket.
He stepped up to the counter and filled a tray with food.
"What are you doing?" I objected. "You're not getting all that for me?"
He shook his head, stepping forward to buy the food.
"Half is for me, of course."
I raised one eyebrow.
He led the way to the same place we'd sat that one time before. From the other end of the long table, a
group of seniors gazed at us in amazement as we sat across from each other. Edward seemed oblivious.
"Take whatever you want," he said, pushing the tray toward me."I'm curious," I said as I picked up an apple, turning it around in my hands, "what would you do if
someone dared you to eat food?"
"You're always curious." He grimaced, shaking his head. He glared at me, holding my eyes as he lifted
the slice of pizza off the tray, and deliberately bit off a mouthful, chewed quickly, and then swallowed. I
watched, eyes wide.
"If someone dared you to eat dirt, you could, couldn't you?" he asked condescendingly.
I wrinkled my nose. "I did once... on a dare," I admitted. "It wasn't so bad."
He laughed. "I suppose I'm not surprised." Something over my shoulder seemed to catch his attention.
"Jessica's analyzing everything I do — she'll break it down for you later." He pushed the rest of the pizza
toward me. The mention of Jessica brought a hint of his former irritation back to his features.
I put down the apple and took a bite of the pizza, looking away, knowing he was about to start.
"So the waitress was pretty, was she?" he asked casually.
"You really didn't notice?"
"No. I wasn't paying attention. I had a lot on my mind."
"Poor girl." I could afford to be generous now.
"Something you said to Jessica... well, it bothers me." He refused to be distracted. His voice was husky,
and he glanced up from under his lashes with troubled eyes.
"I'm not surprised you heard something you didn't like. You know what they say about eavesdropners," I
reminded him.
"I warned you I would be listening."
"And I warned you that you didn't want to know everything I was thinking."
"You did," he agreed, but his voice was still rough. "You aren't precisely right, though. I do want to know
what you're thinking — everything. I just wish... that you wouldn't be thinking some things."
I scowled. "That's quite a distinction."
"But that's not really the point at the moment."
"Then what is?" We were inclined toward each other across the table now. He had his large white hands
folded under his chin; I leaned forward, my right hand cupped around my neck. I had to remind myself
that we were in a crowded lunchroom, with probably many curious eyes on us. It was too easy to get
wrapped up in our own private, tense little bubble.
"Do you truly believe that you care more for me than I do for you?" he murmured, leaning closer to me as
he spoke, his dark golden eyes piercing.
I tried to remember how to exhale. I had to look away before it came back to me.
"You're doing it again," I muttered.
His eyes opened wide with surprise. "What?""Dazzling me," I admitted, trying to concentrate as I looked back at him.
"Oh." He frowned.
"It's not your fault," I sighed. "You can't help it."
"Are you going to answer the question?"
I looked down. "Yes."
"Yes, you are going to answer, or yes, you really think that?" He was irritated again.
"Yes, I really think that." I kept my eyes down on the table, my eyes tracing the pattern of the faux wood
grains printed on the laminate. The silence dragged on. I stubbornly refused to be the first to break it this
time, fighting hard against the temptation to peek at his expression.
Finally he spoke, voice velvet soft. "You're wrong."
I glanced up to see that his eyes were gentle.
"You can't know that," I disagreed in a whisper. I shook my head in doubt, though my heart throbbed at
his words and I wanted so badly to believe them.
"What makes you think so?" His liquid topaz eyes were penetrating — trying futilely, I assumed, to lift the
truth straight from my mind.
I stared back, struggling to think clearly in spite of his face, to find some way to explain. As I searched
for the words, I could see him getting impatient; frustrated by my silence, he started to scowl. I lifted my
hand from my neck, and held up one finger.
"Let me think," I insisted. His expression cleared, now that he was satisfied that I was planning to answer.
I dropped my hand to the table, moving my left hand so that my palms were pressed together. I stared at
my hands, twisting and untwisting my fingers, as I finally spoke.
"Well, aside from the obvious, sometimes..." I hesitated. "I can't be sure — I don't know how to read
minds — but sometimes it seems like you're trying to say goodbye when you're saying something else."
That was the best I could sum up the sensation of anguish that his words triggered in me at times.
"Perceptive," he whispered. And there was the anguish again, surfacing as he confirmed my fear. "That's
exactly why you're wrong, though," he began to explain, but then his eyes narrowed. "What do you
mean, 'the obvious'?"
"Well, look at me," I said, unnecessarily as he was already staring. "I'm absolutely ordinary — well,
except for bad things like all the near-death experiences and being so clumsy that I'm almost disabled.
And look at you." I waved my hand toward him and all his bewildering perfection.
His brow creased angrily for a moment, then smoothed as his eyes took on a knowing look. "You don't
see yourself very clearly, you know. I'll admit you're dead-on about the bad things," he chuckled blackly,
"but you didn't hear what every human male in this school was thinking on your first day."
I blinked, astonished. "I don't believe it..." I mumbled to myself.
"Trust me just this once — you are the opposite of ordinary."
My embarrassment was much stronger than my pleasure at the look that came into his eyes when he saidthis. I quickly reminded him of my original argument.
"But I'm not saying goodbye," I pointed out.
"Don't you see? That's what proves me right. I care the most, because if I can do it" — he shook his
head, seeming to struggle with the thought — "if leaving is the right thing to do, then I'll hurt myself to
keep from hurting you, to keep you safe."
I glared. "And you don't think I would do the same?"
"You'd never have to make the choice."
Abruptly, his unpredictable mood shifted again; a mischievous, devastating smile rearranged his features.
"Of course, keeping you safe is beginning to feel like a full-time occupation that requires my constant
presence."
"No one has tried to do away with me today," I reminded him, grateful for the lighter subject. I didn't
want him to talk about goodbyes anymore. If I had to, I supposed I could purposefully put myself in
danger to keep him close... I banished that thought before his quick eyes read it on my face. That idea
would definitely get me in trouble.
"Yet," he added.
"Yet," I agreed; I would have argued, but now I wanted him to be expecting disasters.
"I have another question for you." His face was still casual.
"Shoot."
"Do you really need to go to Seattle this Saturday, or was that just an excuse to get out of saying no to
all your admirers?"
I made a face at the memory. "You know, I haven't forgiven you for the Tyler thing yet," I warned him.
"It's your fault that he's deluded himself into thinking I'm going to prom with him."
"Oh, he would have found a chance to ask you without me — I just really wanted to watch your face,"
he chuckled, I would have been angrier if his laughter wasn't so fascinating. "If I'd asked you, would you
have turned me down?" he asked, still laughing to himself.
"Probably not," I admitted. "But I would have canceled later — faked an illness or a sprained ankle."
He was puzzled. "Why would you do that?"
I shook my head sadly. "You've never seen me in Gym, I guess, but I would have thought you would
understand."
"Are you referring to the fact that you can't walk across a flat, stable surface without finding something to
trip over?"
"Obviously."
"That wouldn't be a problem." He was very confident. "It's all in the leading." He could see that I was
about to protest, and he cut me off. "But you never told me — are you resolved on going to Seattle, or
do you mind if we do something different?"As long as the "we" part was in, I didn't care about anything else.
"I'm open to alternatives," I allowed. "But I do have a favor to ask."
He looked wary, as he always did when I asked an open-ended question. "What?"
"Can I drive?"
He frowned. "Why?"
"Well, mostly because when I told Charlie I was going to Seattle, he specifically asked if I was going
alone and, at the time, I was. If he asked again, I probably wouldn't lie, but I don't think he will ask
again, and leaving my truck at home would just bring up the subject unnecessarily. And also, because
your driving frightens me."
He rolled his eyes. "Of all the things about me that could frighten you, you worry about my driving." He
shook his head in disgust, but then his eyes were serious again. "Won't you want to tell your father that
you're spending the day with me?" There was an undercurrent to his question that I didn't understand.
"With Charlie, less is always more." I was definite about that. "Where are we going, anyway?"
"The weather will be nice, so I'll be staying out of the public eye... and you can stay with me, if you'd like
to." Again, he was leaving the choice up to me.
"And you'll show me what you meant, about the sun?" I asked, excited by the idea of unraveling another
of the unknowns.
"Yes." He smiled, and then paused. "But if you don't want to be... alone with me, I'd still rather you
didn't go to Seattle by yourself. I shudder to think of the trouble you could find in a city that size."
I was miffed. "Phoenix is three times bigger than Seattle — just in population. In physical size —"
"But apparently," he interrupted me, "your number wasn't up in Phoenix. So I'd rather you stayed near
me." His eyes did that unfair smoldering thing again.
I couldn't argue, with the eyes or the motivation, and it was a moot point anyway. "As it happens, I don't
mind being alone with you."
"I know," he sighed, brooding. "You should tell Charlie, though."
"Why in the world would I do that?"
His eyes were suddenly fierce. "To give me some small incentive to bring you back."
I gulped. But, after a moment of thought, I was sure. "I think I'll take my chances."
He exhaled angrily, and looked away.
"Let's talk about something else," I suggested.
"What do you want to talk about?" he asked. He was still annoyed.
I glanced around us, making sure we were well out of anyone's hearing. As I cast my eyes around the
room, I caught the eyes of his sister, Alice, staring at me. The others were looking at Edward. I looked
away swiftly, back to him, and I. asked the first thing that came to mind."Why did you go to that Goat Rocks place last weekend... to hunt? Charlie said it wasn't a good place
to hike, because of bears."
He stared at me as if I was missing something very obvious.
"Bears?" I gasped, and he smirked. "You know, bears are not in season," I added sternly, to hide my
shock.
"If you read carefully, the laws only cover hunting with weapons," he informed me.
He watched my face with enjoyment as that slowly sank in.
"Bears?" I repeated with difficulty.
"Grizzly is Emmett's favorite." His voice was still offhand, but his eyes were scrutinizing my reaction. I
tried to pull myself together.
"Hmmm," I said, taking another bite of pizza as an excuse to look down. I chewed slowly, and then took
a long drink of Coke without looking up.
"So," I said after a moment, finally meeting his now-anxious gaze. "What's your favorite?"
He raised an eyebrow and the corners of his mouth turned down in disapproval. "Mountain lion."
"Ah," I said in a politely disinterested tone, looking for my soda again.
"Of course," he said, and his tone mirrored mine, "we have to be careful not to impact the environment
with injudicious hunting. We try to focus on areas with an overpopulation of predators — ranging as far
away as we need. There's always plenty of deer and elk here, and they'll do, but where's the fun in that?"
He smiled teasingly.
"Where indeed," I murmured around another bite of pizza.
"Early spring is Emmett's favorite bear season — they're just coming out of hibernation, so they're more
irritable." He smiled at some remembered joke.
"Nothing more fun than an irritated grizzly bear," I agreed, nodding.
He snickered, shaking his head. "Tell me what you're really thinking, please."
"I'm trying to picture it — but I can't," I admitted. "How do you hunt a bear without weapons?"
"Oh, we have weapons." He flashed his bright teeth in a brief, threatening smile. I fought back a shiver
before it could expose me. "Just not the kind they consider when writing hunting laws. If you've ever seen
a bear attack on television, you should be able to visualize Emmett hunting."
I couldn't stop the next shiver that flashed down my spine. I peeked across the cafeteria toward Emmett,
grateful that he wasn't looking my way. The thick bands of muscle that wrapped his arms and torso were
somehow even more menacing now.
Edward followed my gaze and chuckled. I stared at him, unnerved.
"Are you like a bear, too?" I asked in a low voice.
"More like the lion, or so they tell me," he said lightly. "Perhaps our preferences are indicative."I tried to smile. "Perhaps," I repeated. But my mind was filled with opposing images that I couldn't merge
together. "Is that something I might get to see?"
"Absolutely not!" His face turned even whiter than usual, and his eyes were suddenly furious. I leaned
back, stunned and — though I'd never admit it to him — frightened by his reaction. He leaned back as
well, folding his arms across his chest.
"Too scary for me?" I asked when I could control my voice again.
"If that were it, I would take you out tonight," he said, his voice cutting. "You need a healthy dose of fear.
Nothing could be more beneficial for you."
"Then why?" I pressed, trying to ignore his angry expression.
He glared at me for a long minute.
"Later," he finally said. He was on his feet in one lithe movement. "We're going to be late."
I glanced around, startled to see that he was right and the cafeteria was nearly vacant. When I was with
him, the time and the place were such a muddled blur that I completely lost track of both. I jumped up,
grabbing my bag from the back of my chair.
"Later, then," I agreed. I wouldn't forget.
11. COMPLICATIONS
Everyone watched us as we walked together to our lab table. I noticed that he no longer angled the chair
to sit as far from me as the desk would allow. Instead, he sat quite close beside me, our arms almost
touching.
Mr. Banner backed into the room then — what superb timing the man had — pulling a tall metal frame
on wheels that held a heavy-looking, outdated TV and VCR. A movie day — the lift in the class
atmosphere was almost tangible.
Mr. Banner shoved the tape into the reluctant VCR and walked to the wall to turn off the lights.
And then, as the room went black, I was suddenly hyperaware that Edward was sitting less than an inch
from me. I was stunned by the unexpected electricity that flowed through me, amazed that it was possible
to be more aware of him than I already was. A crazy impulse to reach over and touch him, to stroke his
perfect face just once in the darkness, nearly overwhelmed me. I crossed my arms tightly across my
chest, my hands balling into fists. I was losing my mind.
The opening credits began, lighting the room by a token amount. My eyes, of their own accord, flickered
to him. I smiled sheepishly as I realized his posture was identical to mine, fists clenched under his arms,
right down to the eyes, peering sideways at me. He grinned back, his eyes somehow managing to
smolder, even in the dark. I looked away before I could start hyperventilating. It was absolutely
ridiculous that I should feel dizzy.
The hour seemed very long. I couldn't concentrate on the movie — I didn't even know what subject it
was on. I tried unsuccessfully to relax, but the electric current that seemed to be originating from
somewhere in his body never slackened. Occasionally I would permit myself a quick glance in hisdirection, but he never seemed to relax, either. The overpowering craving to touch him also refused to
fade, and I crushed my fists safely against my ribs until my fingers were aching with the effort.
I breathed a sigh of relief when Mr. Banner flicked the lights back on at the end of class, and stretched
my arms out in front of me, flexing my stiff fingers. Edward chuckled beside me.
"Well, that was interesting," he murmured. His voice was dark and his eyes were cautious.
"Umm," was all I was able to respond.
"Shall we?" he asked, rising fluidly.
I almost groaned. Time for Gym. I stood with care, worried my balance might have been affected by the
strange new intensity between us.
He walked me to my next class in silence and paused at the door; I turned to say goodbye. His face
startled me — his expression was torn, almost pained, and so fiercely beautiful that the ache to touch him
flared as strong as before. My goodbye stuck in my throat.
He raised his hand, hesitant, conflict raging in his eyes, and then swiftly brushed the length of my
cheekbone with his fingertips. His skin was as icy as ever, but the trail his fingers left on my skin was
alarmingly warm — like I'd been burned, but didn't feel the pain of it yet.
He turned without a word and strode quickly away from me.
I walked into the gym, lightheaded and wobbly. I drifted to the locker room, changing in a trancelike
state, only vaguely aware that there were other people surrounding me. Reality didn't fully set in until I
was handed a racket. It wasn't heavy, yet it felt very unsafe in my hand. I could see a few of the other
kids in class eyeing me furtively. Coach Clapp ordered us to pair up into teams.
Mercifully, some vestiges of Mike's chivalry still survived; he came to stand beside me.
"Do you want to be a team?"
"Thanks, Mike — you don't have to do this, you know." I grimaced apologetically.
"Don't worry, I'll keep out of your way." He grinned. Sometimes it was so easy to like Mike.
It didn't go smoothly. I somehow managed to hit myself in the head with my racket and clip Mike's
shoulder on the same swing. I spent the rest of the hour in the back corner of the court, the racket held
safely behind my back. Despite being handicapped by me, Mike was pretty good; he won three games
out of four singlehandedly. He gave me an unearned high five when the coach finally blew the whistle
ending class.
"So," he said as we walked off the court.
"So what?"
"You and Cullen, huh?" he asked, his tone rebellious. My previous feeling of affection disappeared.
"That's none of your business, Mike," I warned, internally cursing Jessica straight to the fiery pits of
Hades.
"I don't like it," he muttered anyway."You don't have to," I snapped.
"He looks at you like... like you're something to eat," he continued, ignoring me.
I choked back the hysteria that threatened to explode, but a small giggle managed to get out despite my
efforts. He glowered at me. I waved and fled to the locker room.
I dressed quickly, something stronger than butterflies battering recklessly against the walls of my stomach,
my argument with Mike already a distant memory. I was wondering if Edward would be waiting, or if I
should meet him at his car. What if his family was there? I felt a wave of real terror. Did they know that I
knew? Was I supposed to know that they knew that I knew, or not?
By the time I walked out of the gym, I had just about decided to walk straight home without even looking
toward the parking lot. But my worries were unnecessary. Edward was waiting, leaning casually against
the side of the gym, his breathtaking face untroubled now. As I walked to his side, I felt a peculiar sense
of release.
"Hi," I breathed, smiling hugely.
"Hello." His answering smile was brilliant. "How was Gym?"
My face fell a tiny bit. "Fine," I lied.
"Really?" He was unconvinced. His eyes shifted their focus slightly, looking over my shoulder and
narrowing. I glanced behind me to see Mike's back as he walked away.
"What?" I demanded.
His eyes slid back to mine, still tight. "Newton's getting on my nerves."
"You weren't listening again?" I was horror-struck. All traces of my sudden good humor vanished.
"How's your head?" he asked innocently.
"You're unbelievable!" I turned, stomping away in the general direction of the parking lot, though I hadn't
ruled out walking at this point.
He kept up with me easily.
"You were the one who mentioned how I'd never seen you in Gym — it made me curious." He didn't
sound repentant, so I ignored him.
We walked in silence — a furious, embarrassed silence on my part — to his car. But I had to stop a few
steps away — a crowd of people, all boys, were surrounding it.
Then I realized they weren't surrounding the Volvo, they were actually circled around Rosalie's red
convertible, unmistakable lust in their eyes. None of them even looked up as Edward slid between them
to open his door. I climbed quickly in the passenger side, also unnoticed.
"Ostentatious," he muttered.
"What kind of car is that?" I asked.
"An M3.""I don't speak Car and Driver."
"It's a BMW." He rolled his eyes, not looking at me, trying to back out without running over the car
enthusiasts.
I nodded — I'd heard of that one.
"Are you still angry?" he asked as he carefully maneuvered his way out.
"Definitely."
He sighed. "Will you forgive me if I apologize?"
"Maybe... if you mean it. And if you promise not to do it again," I insisted.
His eyes were suddenly shrewd. "How about if I mean it, and I agree to let you drive Saturday?" he
countered my conditions.
I considered, and decided it was probably the best offer I would get. "Deal," I agreed.
"Then I'm very sorry I upset you." His eyes burned with sincerity for a protracted moment — playing
havoc with the rhythm of my heart — and then turned playful. "And I'll be on your doorstep bright and
early Saturday morning."
"Um, it doesn't help with the Charlie situation if an unexplained Volvo is left in the driveway."
His smile was condescending now. "I wasn't intending to bring a car."
"How —"
He cut me off. "Don't worry about it. I'll be there, no car."
I let it go. I had a more pressing question.
"Is it later yet?" I asked significantly.
He frowned. "I supposed it is later."
I kept my expression polite as I waited.
He stopped the car. I looked up, surprised — of course we were already at Charlie's house, parked
behind the truck. It was easier to ride with him if I only looked when it was over. When I looked back at
him, he was staring at me, measuring with his eyes.
"And you still want to know why you can't see me hunt?" He seemed solemn, but I thought I saw a trace
of humor deep in his eyes.
"Well," I clarified, "I was mostly wondering about your reaction."
"Did I frighten you?" Yes, there was definitely humor there.
"No," I lied. He didn't buy it.
"I apologize for scaring you," he persisted with a slight smile, but then all evidence of teasing disappeared.
"It was just the very thought of you being there... while we hunted." His jaw tightened."That would be bad?"
He spoke from between clenched teeth. "Extremely."
"Because... ?"
He took a deep breath and stared through the windshield at the thick, rolling clouds that seemed to press
down, almost within reach.
"When we hunt," he spoke slowly, unwillingly, "we give ourselves over to our senses... govern less with
our minds. Especially our sense of smell. If you were anywhere near me when I lost control that way..."
He shook his head, still gazing morosely at the heavy clouds.
I kept my expression firmly under control, expecting the swift flash of his eyes to judge my reaction that
soon followed. My face gave nothing away.
But our eyes held, and the silence deepened — and changed. Flickers of the electricity I'd felt this
afternoon began to charge the atmosphere as he gazed unrelentingly into my eyes. It wasn't until my head
started to swim that I realized I wasn't breathing. When I drew in a jagged breath, breaking the stillness,
he closed his eyes.
"Bella, I think you should go inside now." His low voice was rough, his eyes on the clouds again.
I opened the door, and the arctic draft that burst into the car helped clear my head. Afraid I might
stumble in my woozy state, I stepped carefully out of the car and shut the door behind me without
looking back. The whir of the automatic window unrolling made me turn.
"Oh, Bella?" he called after me, his voice more even. He leaned toward the open window with a faint
smile on his lips.
"Yes?"
"Tomorrow it's my turn."
"Your turn to what?"
He smiled wider, flashing his gleaming teeth. "Ask the questions."
And then he was gone, the car speeding down the street and disappearing around the corner before I
could even collect my thoughts. I smiled as I walked to the house. It was clear he was planning to see me
tomorrow, if nothing else.
That night Edward starred in my dreams, as usual. However, the climate of my unconsciousness had
changed. It thrilled with the same electricity that had charged the afternoon, and I tossed and turned
restlessly, waking often. It was only in the early hours of the morning that I finally sank into an exhausted,
dreamless sleep.
When I woke I was still tired, but edgy as well. I pulled on my brown turtleneck and the inescapable
jeans, sighing as I daydreamed of spaghetti straps and shorts. Breakfast was the usual, quiet event I
expected. Charlie fried eggs for himself; I had my bowl of cereal. I wondered if he had forgotten about
this Saturday. He answered my unspoken question as he stood up to take his plate to the sink.
"About this Saturday..." he began, walking across the kitchen and turning on the faucet.
I cringed. "Yes, Dad?""Are you still set on going to Seattle?" he asked.
"That was the plan." I grimaced, wishing he hadn't brought it up so I wouldn't have to compose careful
half-truths.
He squeezed some dish soap onto his plate and swirled it around with the brush. "And you're sure you
can't make it back in time for the dance?"
"I'm not going to the dance, Dad." I glared.
"Didn't anyone ask you?" he asked, trying to hide his concern by focusing on rinsing the plate.
I sidestepped the minefield. "It's a girl's choice."
"Oh." He frowned as he dried his plate.
I sympathized with him. It must be a hard thing, to be a father; living in fear that your daughter would
meet a boy she liked, but also having to worry if she didn't. How ghastly it would be, I thought,
shuddering, if Charlie had even the slightest inkling of exactly what I did like.
Charlie left then, with a goodbye wave, and I went upstairs to brush my teeth and gather my books.
When I heard the cruiser pull away, I could only wait a few seconds before I had to peek out of my
window. The silver car was already there, waiting in Charlie's spot on the driveway. I bounded down the
stairs and out the front door, wondering how long this bizarre routine would continue. I never wanted it to
end.
He waited in the car, not appearing to watch as I shut the door behind me without bothering to lock the
dead-bolt. I walked to the car, pausing shyly before opening the door and stepping in. He was smiling,
relaxed — and, as usual, perfect and beautiful to an excruciating degree.
"Good morning." His voice was silky. "How are you today?" His eyes roamed over my face, as if his
question was something more than simple courtesy.
"Good, thank you." I was always good — much more than good — when I was near him.
His gaze lingered on the circles under my eyes. "You look tired."
"I couldn't sleep," I confessed, automatically swinging my hair around my shoulder to provide some
measure of cover.
"Neither could I," he teased as he started the engine. I was becoming used to the quiet purr. I was sure
the roar of my truck would scare me, whenever I got to drive it again.
I laughed. "I guess that's right. I suppose I slept just a little bit more than you did."
"I'd wager you did."
"So what did you do last night?" I asked.
He chuckled. "Not a chance. It's my day to ask questions."
"Oh, that's right. What do you want to know?" My forehead creased. I couldn't imagine anything about
me that could be in any way interesting to him.
"What's your favorite color?" he asked, his face grave.I rolled my eyes. "It changes from day to day."
"What's your favorite color today?" He was still solemn.
"Probably brown." I tended to dress according to my mood.
He snorted, dropping his serious expression. "Brown?" he asked skeptically.
"Sure. Brown is warm. I miss brown. Everything that's supposed to be brown — tree trunks, rocks, dirt
— is all covered up with squashy green stuff here," I complained.
He seemed fascinated by my little rant. He considered for a moment, staring into my eyes.
"You're right," he decided, serious again. "Brown is warm." He reached over, swiftly, but somehow still
hesitantly, to sweep my hair back behind my shoulder.
We were at the school by now. He turned back to me as he pulled into a parking space.
"What music is in your CD player right now?" he asked, his face as somber as if he'd asked for a murder
confession.
I realized I'd never removed the CD Phil had given me. When I said the name of the band, he smiled
crookedly, a peculiar expression in his eyes. He flipped open a compartment under his car's CD player,
pulled out one of thirty or so CDs that were jammed into the small space, and handed it to me,
"Debussy to this?" He raised an eyebrow.
It was the same CD. I examined the familiar cover art, keeping my eyes down.
It continued like that for the rest of the day. While he walked me to English, when he met me after
Spanish, all through the lunch hour, he questioned me relentlessly about every insignificant detail of my
existence. Movies I'd liked and hated, the few places I'd been and the many places I wanted to go, and
books — endlessly books.
I couldn't remember the last time I'd talked so much. More often than not, I felt self-conscious, certain I
must be boring him. But the absolute absorption of his face, and his never-ending stream of questions,
compelled me to continue. Mostly his questions were easy, only a very few triggering my easy blushes.
But when I did flush, it brought on a whole new round of questions.
Such as the time he asked my favorite gemstone, and I blurted out topaz before thinking. He'd been
flinging questions at me with such speed that I felt like I was taking one of those psychiatric tests where
you answer with the first word that comes to mind. I was sure he would have continued down whatever
mental list he was following, except for the blush. My face reddened because, until very recently, my
favorite gemstone was garnet. It was impossible, while staring back into his topaz eyes, not to remember
the reason for the switch. And, naturally, he wouldn't rest until I'd admitted why I was embarrassed.
"Tell me," he finally commanded after persuasion failed — failed only because I kept my eyes safely
away from his face.
"It's the color of your eyes today," I sighed, surrendering, staring down at my hands as I fiddled with a
piece of my hair. "I suppose if you asked me in two weeks I'd say onyx." I'd given more information than
necessary in my unwilling honesty, and I worried it would provoke the strange anger that flared whenever
I slipped and revealed too clearly how obsessed I was.But his pause was very short.
"What kinds of flowers do you prefer?" he fired off.
I sighed in relief, and continued with the psychoanalysis.
Biology was a complication again. Edward had continued with his quizzing up until Mr. Banner entered
the room, dragging the audiovisual frame again. As the teacher approached the light switch, I noticed
Edward slide his chair slightly farther away from mine. It didn't help. As soon as the room was dark,
there was the same electric spark, the same restless craving to stretch my hand across the short space
and touch his cold skin, as yesterday.
I leaned forward on the table, resting my chin on my folded arms, my hidden fingers gripping the table's
edge as I fought to ignore the irrational longing that unsettled me. I didn't look at him, afraid that if he was
looking at me, it would only make self-control that much harder. I sincerely tried to watch the movie, but
at the end of the hour I had no idea what I'd just seen. I sighed in relief again when Mr. Banner turned the
lights on, finally glancing at Edward; he was looking at me, his eyes ambivalent.
He rose in silence and then stood still, waiting for me. We walked toward the gym in silence, like
yesterday. And, also like yesterday, he touched my face wordlessly — this time with the back of his cool
hand, stroking once from my temple to my jaw — before he turned and walked away.
Gym passed quickly as I watched Mike's one-man badminton show. He didn't speak to me today, either
in response to my vacant expression or because he was still angry about our squabble yesterday.
Somewhere, in a corner of my mind, I felt bad about that. But I couldn't concentrate on him.
I hurried to change afterward, ill at ease, knowing the faster I moved, the sooner I would be with
Edward. The pressure made me more clumsy than usual, but eventually I made it out the door, feeling the
same release when I saw him standing there, a wide smile automatically spreading across my face. He
smiled in reaction before launching into more cross-examination.
His questions were different now, though, not as easily answered. He wanted to know what I missed
about home, insisting on descriptions of anything he wasn't familiar with. We sat in front of Charlie's
house for hours, as the sky darkened and rain plummeted around us in a sudden deluge.
I tried to describe impossible things like the scent of creosote — bitter, slightly resinous, but still pleasant
— the high, keening sound of the cicadas in July, the feathery barrenness of the trees, the very size of the
sky, extending white-blue from horizon to horizon, barely interrupted by the low mountains covered with
purple volcanic rock. The hardest thing to explain was why it was so beautiful to me — to justify a
beauty that didn't depend on the sparse, spiny vegetation that often looked half dead, a beauty that had
more to do with the exposed shape of the land, with the shallow bowls of valleys between the craggy
hills, and the way they held on to the sun. I found myself using my hands as I tried to describe it to him.
His quiet, probing questions kept me talking freely, forgetting, in the dim light of the storm, to be
embarrassed for monopolizing the conversation. Finally, when I had finished detailing my cluttered room
at home, he paused instead of responding with another question.
"Are you finished?" I asked in relief.
"Not even close — but your father will be home soon."
"Charlie!" I suddenly recalled his existence, and sighed. I looked out at the rain-darkened sky, but it gave
nothing away. "How late is it?" I wondered out loud as I glanced at the clock. I was surprised by the time— Charlie would be driving home now.
"It's twilight," Edward murmured, looking at the western horizon, obscured as it was with clouds. His
voice was thoughtful, as if his mind were somewhere far away. I stared at him as he gazed unseeingly out
the windshield.
I was still staring when his eyes suddenly shifted back to mine.
"It's the safest time of day for us," he said, answering the unspoken question in my eyes. "The easiest
time. But also the saddest, in a way... the end of another day, the return of the night. Darkness is so
predictable, don't you think?" He smiled wistfully.
"I like the night. Without the dark, we'd never see the stars." I frowned. "Not that you see them here
much."
He laughed, and the mood abruptly lightened.
"Charlie will be here in a few minutes. So, unless you want to tell him that you'll be with me Saturday..."
He raised one eyebrow.
"Thanks, but no thanks." I gathered my books, realizing I was stiff from sitting still so long. "So is it my
turn tomorrow, then?"
"Certainly not!" His face was teasingly outraged. "I told you I wasn't done, didn't I?"
"What more is there?"
"You'll find out tomorrow." He reached across to open my door for me, and his sudden proximity sent
my heart into frenzied palpitations.
But his hand froze on the handle.
"Not good," he muttered.
"What is it?" I was surprised to see that his jaw was clenched, his eyes disturbed.
He glanced at me for a brief second. "Another complication," he said glumly.
He flung the door open in one swift movement, and then moved, almost cringed, swiftly away from me.
The flash of headlights through the rain caught my attention as a dark car pulled up to the curb just a few
feet away, facing us.
"Charlie's around the corner," he warned, staring through the downpour at the other vehicle.
I hopped out at once, despite my confusion and curiosity. The rain was louder as it glanced off my
jacket.
I tried to make out the shapes in the front seat of the other car, but it was too dark. I could see Edward
illuminated in the glare of the new car's headlights; he was still staring ahead, his gaze locked on
something or someone I couldn't see. His expression was a strange mix of frustration and defiance.
Then he revved the engine, and the tires squealed against the wet pavement. The Volvo was out of sight
in seconds."Hey, Bella," called a familiar, husky voice from the driver's side of the little black car.
"Jacob?" I asked, squinting through the rain. Just then, Charlie's cruiser swung around the corner, his
lights shining on the occupants of the car in front of me.
Jacob was already climbing out, his wide grin visible even through the darkness. In the passenger seat
was a much older man, a heavyset man with a memorable face — a face that overflowed, the cheeks
resting against his shoulders, with creases running through the russet skin like an old leather jacket. And
the surprisingly familiar eyes, black eyes that seemed at the same time both too young and too ancient for
the broad face they were set in. Jacob's father, Billy Black. I knew him immediately, though in the more
than five years since I'd seen him last I'd managed to forget his name when Charlie had spoken of him my
first day here. He was staring at me, scrutinizing my face, so I smiled tentatively at him. His eyes were
wide, as if in shock or fear, his nostrils flared. My smile faded.
Another complication, Edward had said.
Billy still stared at me with intense, anxious eyes. I groaned internally. Had Billy recognized Edward so
easily? Could he really believe the impossible legends his son had scoffed at?
The answer was clear in Billy's eyes. Yes. Yes, he could.
12. BALANCING
"Billy!" Charlie called as soon as he got out of the car.
I turned toward the house, beckoning to Jacob as I ducked under the porch. I heard Charlie greeting
them loudly behind me.
"I'm going to pretend I didn't see you behind the wheel, Jake," he said disapprovingly.
"We get permits early on the rez," Jacob said while I unlocked the door and flicked on the porch light.
"Sure you do," Charlie laughed.
"I have to get around somehow." I recognized Billy's resonant voice easily, despite the years. The sound
of it made me feel suddenly younger, a child.
I went inside, leaving the door open behind me and turning on lights before I hung up my jacket. Then I
stood in the door, watching anxiously as Charlie and Jacob helped Billy out of the car and into his
wheelchair.
I backed out of the way as the three of them hurried in, shaking off the rain.
"This is a surprise," Charlie was saying.
"It's been too long," Billy answered. "I hope it's not a bad time." His dark eyes flashed up to me again,
their expression unreadable.
"No, it's great. I hope you can stay for the game."
Jacob grinned. "I think that's the plan — our TV broke last week."Billy made a face at his son. "And, of course, Jacob was anxious to see Bella again," he added. Jacob
scowled and ducked his head while I fought back a surge of remorse. Maybe I'd been too convincing on
the beach.
"Are you hungry?" I asked, turning toward the kitchen. I was eager to escape Billy's searching gaze.
"Naw, we ate just before we came," Jacob answered.
"How about you, Charlie?" I called over my shoulder as I fled around the corner.
"Sure," he replied, his voice moving in the direction of the front room and the TV. I could hear Billy's
chair follow.
The grilled cheese sandwiches were in the frying pan and I was slicing up a tomato when I sensed
someone behind me.
"So, how are things?" Jacob asked.
"Pretty good." I smiled. His enthusiasm was hard to resist. "How about you? Did you finish your car?"
"No." He frowned. "I still need parts. We borrowed that one." He pointed with his thumb in the direction
of the front yard.
"Sorry. I haven't seen any... what was it you were looking for?"
"Master cylinder." He grinned. "Is something wrong with the truck?" he added suddenly.
"No."
"Oh. I just wondered because you weren't driving it."
I stared down at the pan, pulling up the edge of a sandwich to check the bottom side. "I got a ride with a
friend."
"Nice ride." Jacob's voice was admiring. "I didn't recognize the driver, though. I thought I knew most of
the kids around here."
I nodded noncommittally, keeping my eyes down as I flipped sandwiches.
"My dad seemed to know him from somewhere."
"Jacob, could you hand me some plates? They're in the cupboard over the sink."
"Sure."
He got the plates in silence. I hoped he would let it drop now.
"So who was it?" he asked, setting two plates on the counter next to me.
I sighed in defeat. "Edward Cullen."
To my surprise, he laughed. I glanced up at him. He looked a little embarrassed.
"Guess that explains it, then," he said. "I wondered why my dad was acting so strange."
"That's right." I faked an innocent expression. "He doesn't like the Cullens.""Superstitious old man," Jacob muttered under his breath.
"You don't think he'd say anything to Charlie?" I couldn't help asking, the words coming out in a low
rush.
Jacob stared at me for a moment, and I couldn't read the expression in his dark eyes. "I doubt it," he
finally answered. "I think Charlie chewed him out pretty good last time. They haven't spoken much since
— tonight is sort of a reunion, I think. I don't think he'd bring it up again."
"Oh," I said, trying to sound indifferent.
I stayed in the front room after I carried the food out to Charlie, pretending to watch the game while
Jacob chattered at me. I was really listening to the men's conversation, watching for any sign that Billy
was about to rat me out, trying to think of ways to stop him if he began.
It was a long night. I had a lot of homework that was going undone, but I was afraid to leave Billy alone
with Charlie. Finally, the game ended.
"Are you and your friends coming back to the beach soon?" Jacob asked as he pushed his father over
the lip of the threshold.
"I'm not sure," I hedged.
"That was fun, Charlie," Billy said.
"Come up for the next game," Charlie encouraged.
"Sure, sure," Billy said. "We'll be here. Have a good night." His eyes shifted to mine, and his smile
disappeared. "You take care, Bella," he added seriously.
"Thanks," I muttered, looking away.
I headed for the stairs while Charlie waved from the doorway.
"Wait, Bella," he said.
I cringed. Had Billy gotten something in before I'd joined them in the living room?
But Charlie was relaxed, still grinning from the unexpected visit.
"I didn't get a chance to talk to you tonight. How was your day?"
"Good." I hesitated with one foot on the first stair, searching for details I could safely share. "My
badminton team won all four games."
"Wow, I didn't know you could play badminton."
"Well, actually I can't, but my partner is really good," I admitted.
"Who is it?" he asked with token interest.
"Um... Mike Newton," I told him reluctantly.
"Oh yeah — you said you were friends with the Newton kid." He perked up. "Nice family." He mused
for a minute. "Why didn't you ask him to the dance this weekend?""Dad!" I groaned. "He's kind of dating my friend Jessica. Besides, you know I can't dance."
"Oh yeah," he muttered. Then he smiled at me apologetically. "So I guess it's good you'll be gone
Saturday... I've made plans to go fishing with the guys from the station. The weather's supposed to be
real warm. But if you wanted to put your trip off till someone could go with you, I'd stay home. I know I
leave you here alone too much."
"Dad, you're doing a great job." I smiled, hoping my relief didn't show. "I've never minded being alone —
I'm too much like you." I winked at him, and he smiled his crinkly-eyed smile.
I slept better that night, too tired to dream again. When I woke to the pearl gray morning, my mood was
blissful. The tense evening with Billy and Jacob seemed harmless enough now; I decided to forget it
completely. I caught myself whistling while I was pulling the front part of my hair back into a barrette, and
later again as I skipped down the stairs. Charlie noticed.
"You're cheerful this morning," he commented over breakfast.
I shrugged. "It's Friday."
I hurried so I would be ready to go the second Charlie left. I had my bag ready, shoes on, teeth brushed,
but even though I rushed to the door as soon as I was sure Charlie would be out of sight, Edward was
faster. He was waiting in his shiny car, windows down, engine off.
I didn't hesitate this time, climbing in the passenger side quickly, the sooner to see his face. He grinned his
crooked smile at me, stopping my breath and my heart. I couldn't imagine how an angel could be any
more glorious. There was nothing about him that could be improved upon.
"How did you sleep?" he asked. I wondered if he had any idea how appealing his voice was.
"Fine. How was your night?"
"Pleasant." His smile was amused; I felt like I was missing an inside joke.
"Can I ask what you did?" I asked.
"No." He grinned. "Today is still mine."
He wanted to know about people today: more about Renée, her hobbies, what we'd done in our free
time together. And then the one grandmother I'd known, my few school friends — embarrassing me
when he asked about boys I'd dated. I was relieved that I'd never really dated anyone, so that particular
conversation couldn't last long. He seemed as surprised as Jessica and Angela by my lack of romantic
history.
"So you never met anyone you wanted?" he asked in a serious tone that made me wonder what he was
thinking about.
I was grudgingly honest. "Not in Phoenix."
His lips pressed together into a hard line.
We were in the cafeteria at this point. The day had sped by in the blur that was rapidly becoming routine.
I took advantage of his brief pause to take a bite of my bagel."I should have let you drive yourself today," he announced, apropos of nothing, while I chewed.
"Why?" I demanded.
"I'm leaving with Alice after lunch."
"Oh." I blinked, bewildered and disappointed. "That's okay, it's not that far of a walk."
He frowned at me impatiently. "I'm not going to make you walk home. We'll go get your truck and leave
it here for you."
"I don't have my key with me," I sighed. "I really don't mind walking." What I minded was losing my time
with him.
He shook his head. "Your truck will be here, and the key will be in the ignition — unless you're afraid
someone might steal it." He laughed at the thought.
"All right," I agreed, pursing my lips. I was pretty sure my key was in the pocket of a pair of jeans I wore
Wednesday, under a pile of clothes in the laundry room. Even if he broke into my house, or whatever he
was planning, he'd never find it. He seemed to feel the challenge in my consent. He smirked,
overconfident.
"So where are you going?" I asked as casually as I could manage.
"Hunting," he answered grimly. "If I'm going to be alone with you tomorrow, I'm going to take whatever
precautions I can." His face grew morose... and pleading. "You can always cancel, you know."
I looked down, afraid of the persuasive power of his eyes. I refused to be convinced to fear him, no
matter how real the danger might be. It doesn't matter, I repeated in my head.
"No," I whispered, glancing back at his face. "I can't."
"Perhaps you're right," he murmured bleakly. His eyes seemed to darken in color as I watched.
I changed the subject. "What time will I see you tomorrow?" I asked, already depressed by the thought
of him leaving now.
"That depends... it's a Saturday, don't you want to sleep in?" he offered.
"No," I answered too fast. He restrained a smile.
"The same time as usual, then," he decided. "Will Charlie be there?"
"No, he's fishing tomorrow." I beamed at the memory of how conveniently things had worked out.
His voice turned sharp. "And if you don't come home, what will he think?"
"I have no idea," I answered coolly. "He knows I've been meaning to do the laundry. Maybe he'll think I
fell in the washer."
He scowled at me and I scowled back. His anger was much more impressive than mine.
"What are you hunting tonight?" I asked when I was sure I had lost the glowering contest.
"Whatever we find in the park. We aren't going far." He seemed bemused by my casual reference to his
secret realities."Why are you going with Alice?" I wondered.
"Alice is the most... supportive." He frowned as he spoke.
"And the others?" I asked timidly. "What are they?"
His brow puckered for a brief moment. "Incredulous, for the most part."
I peeked quickly behind me at his family. They sat staring off in different directions, exactly the same as
the first time I'd seen them. Only now they were four; their beautiful, bronze-haired brother sat across
from me, his golden eyes troubled.
"They don't like me," I guessed.
"That's not it," he disagreed, but his eyes were too innocent. "They don't understand why I can't leave
you alone."
I grimaced. "Neither do I, for that matter."
Edward shook his head slowly, rolling his eyes toward the ceiling before he met my gaze again. "I told
you — you don't see yourself clearly at all. You're not like anyone I've ever known. You fascinate me."
I glared at him, sure he was teasing now.
He smiled as he deciphered my expression. "Having the advantages I do," he murmured, touching his
forehead discreetly, "I have a better than average grasp of human nature. People are predictable. But
you... you never do what I expect. You always take me by surprise."
I looked away, my eyes wandering back to his family, embarrassed and dissatisfied. His words made me
feel like a science experiment. I wanted to laugh at myself for expecting anything else.
"That part is easy enough to explain," he continued. I felt his eyes on my face but I couldn't look at him
yet, afraid he might read the chagrin in my eyes. "But there's more... and it's not so easy to put into
words —"
I was still staring at the Cullens while he spoke. Suddenly Rosalie, his blond and breathtaking sister,
turned to look at me. No, not to look — to glare, with dark, cold eyes. I wanted to look away, but her
gaze held me until Edward broke off mid-sentence and made an angry noise under his breath. It was
almost a hiss.
Rosalie turned her head, and I was relieved to be free. I looked back at Edward — and I knew he could
see the confusion and fear that widened my eyes.
His face was tight as he explained. "I'm sorry about that. She's just worried. You see... it's dangerous for
more than just me if, after spending so much time with you so publicly..." He looked down.
"If?"
"If this ends... badly." He dropped his head into his hands, as he had that night in Port Angeles. His
anguish was plain; I yearned to comfort him, but I was at a loss to know how. My hand reached toward
him involuntarily; quickly, though, I dropped it to the table, fearing that my touch would only make things
worse. I realized slowly that his words should frighten me. I waited for that fear to come, but all I could
seem to feel was an ache for his pain.
And frustration — frustration that Rosalie had interrupted whatever he was about to say. I didn't knowhow to bring it up again. He still had his head in his hands.
I tried to speak in a normal voice. "And you have to leave now?"
"Yes." He raised his face; it was serious for a moment, and then his mood shifted and he smiled. "It's
probably for the best. We still have fifteen minutes of that wretched movie left to endure in Biology — I
don't think I could take any more."
I started. Alice — her short, inky hair in a halo of spiky disarray around her exquisite, elfin face — was
suddenly standing behind his shoulder. Her slight frame was willowy, graceful even in absolute stillness.
He greeted her without looking away from me. "Alice."
"Edward," she answered, her high soprano voice almost as attractive as his.
"Alice, Bella — Bella, Alice," he introduced us, gesturing casually with his hand, a wry smile on his face.
"Hello, Bella." Her brilliant obsidian eyes were unreadable, but her smile was friendly. "It's nice to finally
meet you."
Edward flashed a dark look at her.
"Hi, Alice," I murmured shyly.
"Are you ready?" she asked him.
His voice was aloof. "Nearly. I'll meet you at the car."
She left without another word; her walk was so fluid, so sinuous that I felt a sharp pang of jealousy.
"Should I say 'have fun,' or is that the wrong sentiment?" I asked, turning back to him.
"No, 'have fun' works as well as anything." He grinned.
"Have fun, then." I worked to sound wholehearted. Of course I didn't fool him.
"I'll try." He still grinned. "And you try to be safe, please."
"Safe in Forks — what a challenge."
"For you it is a challenge." His jaw hardened. "Promise."
"I promise to try to be safe," I recited. "I'll do the laundry tonight — that ought to be fraught with peril."
"Don't fall in," he mocked.
"I'll do my best."
He stood then, and I rose, too.
"I'll see you tomorrow," I sighed.
"It seems like a long time to you, doesn't it?" he mused.
I nodded glumly.
"I'll be there in the morning," he promised, smiling his crooked smile. He reached across the table totouch my face, lightly brushing along my cheekbone again. Then he turned and walked away. I stared
after him until he was gone.
I was sorely tempted to ditch the rest of the day, at the very least Gym, but a warning instinct stopped
me. I knew that if I disappeared now, Mike and others would assume I was with Edward. And Edward
was worried about the time we'd spent together publicly... if things went wrong. I refused to dwell on the
last thought, concentrating instead on making things safer for him.
I intuitively knew — and sensed he did, too — that tomorrow would be pivotal. Our relationship couldn't
continue to balance, as it did, on the point of a knife. We would fall off one edge or the other, depending
entirely upon his decision, or his instincts. My decision was made, made before I'd ever consciously
chosen, and I was committed to seeing it through. Because there was nothing more terrifying to me, more
excruciating, than the thought of turning away from him. It was an impossibility.
I went to class, feeling dutiful. I couldn't honestly say what happened in Biology; my mind was too
preoccupied with thoughts of tomorrow. In Gym, Mike was speaking to me again; he wished me a good
time in Seattle. I carefully explained that I'd canceled my trip, worried about my truck.
"Are you going to the dance with Cullen?" he asked, suddenly sulky.
"No, I'm not going to the dance at all."
"What are you doing, then?" he asked, too interested.
My natural urge was to tell him to butt out. Instead, I lied brightly.
"Laundry, and then I have to study for the Trig test or I'm going to fail."
"Is Cullen helping you study?"
"Edward," I emphasized, "is not going to help me study. He's gone away somewhere for the weekend."
The lies came more naturally than usual, I noted with surprise.
"Oh." He perked up. "You know, you could come to the dance with our group anyway — that would be
cool. We'd all dance with you," he promised.
The mental image of Jessica's face made my tone sharper than necessary.
"I'm not going to the dance, Mike, okay?"
"Fine." He sulked again. "I was just offering."
When the school day had finally ended, I walked to the parking lot without enthusiasm. I did not
especially want to walk home, but I couldn't see how he would have retrieved my truck. Then again, I
was starting to believe that nothing was impossible for him. The latter instinct proved correct — my truck
sat in the same space he'd parked his Volvo in this morning. I shook my head, incredulous, as I opened
the unlocked door and saw the key in the ignition.
There was a piece of white paper folded on my seat. I got in and closed the door before I unfolded it.
Two words were written in his elegant script.
Be safe.The sound of the truck roaring to life frightened me. I laughed at myself.
When I got home, the handle of the door was locked, the dead bolt unlocked, just as I'd left it this
morning. Inside, I went straight to the laundry room. It looked just the same as I'd left it, too. I dug for
my jeans and, after finding them, checked the pockets. Empty. Maybe I'd hung my key up after all, I
thought, shaking my head.
Following the same instinct that had prompted me to lie to Mike, I called Jessica on the pretense of
wishing her luck at the dance. When she offered the same wish for my day with Edward, I told her about
the cancellation. She was more disappointed than really necessary for a third-party observer to be. I said
goodbye quickly after that.
Charlie was absentminded at dinner, worried over something at work, I guessed, or maybe a basketball
game, or maybe he was just really enjoying the lasagna — it was hard to tell with Charlie.
"You know, Dad..." I began, breaking into his reverie.
"What's that, Bell?"
"I think you're right about Seattle. I think I'll wait until Jessica or someone else can go with me."
"Oh," he said, surprised. "Oh, okay. So, do you want me to stay home?"
"No, Dad, don't change your plans. I've got a million things to do... homework, laundry... I need to go
to the library and the grocery store. I'll be in and out all day... you go and have fun."
"Are you sure?"
"Absolutely, Dad. Besides, the freezer is getting dangerously low on fish — we're down to a two, maybe
three years' supply."
"You're sure easy to live with, Bella." He smiled.
"I could say the same thing about you," I said, laughing. The sound of my laughter was off, but he didn't
seem to notice. I felt so guilty for deceiving him that I almost took Edward's advice and told him where I
would be. Almost.
After dinner, I folded clothes and moved another load through the dryer. Unfortunately it was the kind of
job that only keeps hands busy. My mind definitely had too much free time, and it was getting out of
control. I fluctuated between anticipation so intense that it was very nearly pain, and an insidious fear that
picked at my resolve. I had to keep reminding myself that I'd made my choice, and I wasn't going back
on it. I pulled his note out of my pocket much more often than necessary to absorb the two small words
he'd written. He wants me to be safe, I told myself again and again. I would just hold on to the faith that,
in the end, that desire would win out over the others. And what was my other choice — to cut him out of
my life? Intolerable. Besides, since I'd come to Forks, it really seemed like my life was about him.
But a tiny voice in the back of my mind worried, wondering if it would hurt very much... if it ended
badly.
I was relieved when it was late enough to be acceptable for bedtime. I knew I was far too stressed to
sleep, so I did something I'd never done before. I deliberately took unnecessary cold medicine — the
kind that knocked me out for a good eight hours. I normally wouldn't condone that type of behavior in
myself, but tomorrow would be complicated enough without me being loopy from sleep deprivation on
top of everything else. While I waited for the drugs to kick in, I dried my clean hair till it was impeccablystraight, and fussed over what I would wear tomorrow. With everything ready for the morning, I finally
lay in my bed. I felt hyper; I couldn't stop twitching. I got up and rifled through my shoebox of CDs until I
found a collection of Chopin's nocturnes. I put that on very quietly and then lay down again,
concentrating on relaxing individual parts of my body. Somewhere in the middle of that exercise, the cold
pills took effect, and I gladly sank into unconsciousness.
I woke early, having slept soundly and dreamlessly thanks to my gratuitous drug use. Though I was well
rested, I slipped right back into the same hectic frenzy from the night before. I dressed in a rush,
smoothing my collar against my neck, fidgeting with the tan sweater till it hung right over my jeans. I
sneaked a swift look out the window to see that Charlie was already gone. A thin, cottony layer of
clouds veiled the sky. They didn't look very lasting.
I ate breakfast without tasting the food, hurrying to clean up when I was done. I peeked out the window
again, but nothing had changed. I had just finished brushing my teeth and was heading back downstairs
when a quiet knock sent my heart thudding against my rib cage.
I flew to the door; I had a little trouble with the simple dead bolt, but I yanked the door open at last, and
there he was. All the agitation dissolved as soon as I looked at his face, calm taking its place. I breathed
a sigh of relief — yesterday's fears seemed very foolish with him here.
He wasn't smiling at first — his face was somber. But then his expression lightened as he looked me
over, and he laughed.
"Good morning," he chuckled.
"What's wrong?" I glanced down to make sure I hadn't forgotten anything important, like shoes, or pants.
"We match." He laughed again. I realized he had a long, light tan sweater on, with a white collar showing
underneath, and blue jeans. I laughed with him, hiding a secret twinge of regret — why did he have to
look like a runway model when I couldn't?
I locked the door behind me while he walked to the truck. He waited by the passenger door with a
martyred expression that was easy to understand.
"We made a deal," I reminded him smugly, climbing into the driver's seat, and reaching over to unlock his
door.
"Where to?" I asked.
"Put your seat belt on — I'm nervous already."
I gave him a dirty look as I complied.
"Where to?" I repeated with a sigh.
"Take the one-oh-one north," he ordered.
It was surprisingly difficult to concentrate on the road while feeling his gaze on my face. I compensated
by driving more carefully than usual through the still-sleeping town.
"Were you planning to make it out of Forks before nightfall?"
"This truck is old enough to be your car's grandfather — have some respect," I retorted.We were soon out of the town limits, despite his negativity. Thick underbrush and green-swathed trunks
replaced the lawns and houses.
"Turn right on the one-ten," he instructed just as I was about to ask. I obeyed silently.
"Now we drive until the pavement ends."
I could hear a smile in his voice, but I was too afraid of driving off the road and proving him right to look
over and be sure.
"And what's there, at the pavement's end?" I wondered.
"A trail."
"We're hiking?" Thank goodness I'd worn tennis shoes.
"Is that a problem?" He sounded as if he'd expected as much.
"No." I tried to make the lie sound confident. But if he thought my truck was slow...
"Don't worry, it's only five miles or so, and we're in no hurry."
Five miles. I didn't answer, so that he wouldn't hear my voice crack in panic. Five miles of treacherous
roots and loose stones, trying to twist my ankles or otherwise incapacitate me. This was going to be
humiliating.
We drove in silence for a while as I contemplated the coming horror.
"What are you thinking?" he asked impatiently after a few moments.
I lied again. "Just wondering where we're going."
"It's a place I like to go when the weather is nice." We both glanced out the windows at the thinning
clouds after he spoke.
"Charlie said it would be warm today."
"And did you tell Charlie what you were up to?" he asked.
"Nope."
"But Jessica thinks we're going to Seattle together?" He seemed cheered by the idea.
"No, I told her you canceled on me — which is true."
"No one knows you're with me?" Angrily, now.
"That depends... I assume you told Alice?"
"That's very helpful, Bella," he snapped.
I pretended I didn't hear that.
"Are you so depressed by Forks that it's made you suicidal?" he demanded when I ignored him.
"You said it might cause trouble for you... us being together publicly," I reminded him."So you're worried about the trouble it might cause me— if you don't come home?" His voice was still
angry, and bitingly sarcastic.
I nodded, keeping my eyes on the road.
He muttered something under his breath, speaking so quickly that I couldn't understand.
We were silent for the rest of the drive. I could feel the waves of infuriated disapproval rolling off of him,
and I could think of nothing to say.
And then the road ended, constricting to a thin foot trail with a small wooden marker. I parked on the
narrow shoulder and stepped out, afraid because he was angry with me and I didn't have driving as an
excuse not to look at him. It was warm now, warmer than it had been in Forks since the day I'd arrived,
almost muggy under the clouds. I pulled off my sweater and knotted it around my waist, glad that I'd
worn the light, sleeveless shirt — especially if I had five miles of hiking ahead of me.
I heard his door slam, and looked over to see that he'd removed his sweater, too. He was facing away
from me, into the unbroken forest beside my truck.
"This way," he said, glancing over his shoulder at me, eyes still annoyed. He started into the dark forest.
"The trail?" Panic was clear in my voice as I hurried around the truck to catch up to him.
"I said there was a trail at the end of the road, not that we were taking it."
"No trail?" I asked desperately.
"I won't let you get lost." He turned then, with a mocking smile, and I stifled a gasp. His white shirt was
sleeveless, and he wore it unbuttoned, so that the smooth white skin of his throat flowed uninterrupted
over the marble contours of his chest, his perfect musculature no longer merely hinted at behind
concealing clothes. He was too perfect, I realized with a piercing stab of despair. There was no way this
godlike creature could be meant for me.
He stared at me, bewildered by my tortured expression.
"Do you want to go home?" he said quietly, a different pain than mine saturating his voice.
"No." I walked forward till I was close beside him, anxious not to waste one second of whatever time I
might have with him.
"What's wrong?" he asked, his voice gentle.
"I'm not a good hiker," I answered dully. "You'll have to be very patient."
"I can be patient — if I make a great effort." He smiled, holding my glance, trying to lift me out of my
sudden, unexplained dejection.
I tried to smile back, but the smile was unconvincing. He scrutinized my face.
"I'll take you home," he promised. I couldn't tell if the promise was unconditional, or restricted to an
immediate departure. I knew he thought it was fear that upset me, and I was grateful again that I was the
one person whose mind he couldn't hear.
"If you want me to hack five miles through the jungle before sundown, you'd better start leading the way,"
I said acidly. He frowned at me, struggling to understand my tone and expression.He gave up after a moment and led the way into the forest.
It wasn't as hard as I had feared. The way was mostly flat, and he held the damp ferns and webs of moss
aside for me. When his straight path took us over fallen trees or boulders, he would help me, lifting me by
the elbow, and then releasing me instantly when I was clear. His cold touch on my skin never failed to
make my heart thud erratically. Twice, when that happened, I caught a look on his face that made me
sure he could somehow hear it.
I tried to keep my eyes away from his perfection as much as possible, but I slipped often. Each time, his
beauty pierced me through with sadness.
For the most part, we walked in silence. Occasionally he would ask a random question that he hadn't
gotten to in the past two days of interrogation. He asked about my birthdays, my grade school teachers,
my childhood pets — and I had to admit that after killing three fish in a row, I'd given up on the whole
institution. He laughed at that, louder than I was used to — bell-like echoes bouncing back to us from the
empty woods.
The hike took me most of the morning, but he never showed any sign of impatience. The forest spread
out around us in a boundless labyrinth of ancient trees, and I began to be nervous that we would never
find our way out again. He was perfectly at ease, comfortable in the green maze, never seeming to feel
any doubt about our direction.
After several hours, the light that filtered through the canopy transformed, the murky olive tone shifting to
a brighter jade. The day had turned sunny, just as he'd foretold. For the first time since we'd entered the
woods, I felt a thrill of excitement — which quickly turned to impatience.
"Are we there yet?" I teased, pretending to scowl.
"Nearly." He smiled at the change in my mood. "Do you see the brightness ahead?"
I peered into the thick forest. "Um, should I?"
He smirked. "Maybe it's a bit soon for your eyes."
"Time to visit the optometrist," I muttered. His smirk grew more pronounced.
But then, after another hundred yards, I could definitely see a lightening in the trees ahead, a glow that
was yellow instead of green. I picked up the pace, my eagerness growing with every step. He let me lead
now, following noiselessly.
I reached the edge of the pool of light and stepped through the last fringe of ferns into the loveliest place I
had ever seen. The meadow was small, perfectly round, and filled with wildflowers — violet, yellow, and
soft white. Somewhere nearby, I could hear the bubbling music of a stream. The sun was directly
overhead, filling the circle with a haze of buttery sunshine. I walked slowly, awestruck, through the soft
grass, swaying flowers, and warm, gilded air. I halfway turned, wanting to share this with him, but he
wasn't behind me where I thought he'd be. I spun around, searching for him with sudden alarm. Finally I
spotted him, still under the dense shade of the canopy at the edge of the hollow, watching me with
cautious eyes. Only then did I remember what the beauty of the meadow had driven from my mind —
the enigma of Edward and the sun, which he'd promised to illustrate for me today.
I took a step back toward him, my eyes alight with curiosity. His eyes were wary, reluctant. I smiled
encouragingly and beckoned to him with my hand, taking another step back to him. He held up a hand in
warning, and I hesitated, rocking back onto my heels.Edward seemed to take a deep breath, and then he stepped out into the bright glow of the midday sun.
13. CONFESSIONS
Edward in the sunlight was shocking. I couldn't get used to it, though I'd been staring at him all afternoon.
His skin, white despite the faint flush from yesterday's hunting trip, literally sparkled, like thousands of tiny
diamonds were embedded in the surface. He lay perfectly still in the grass, his shirt open over his
sculpted, incandescent chest, his scintillating arms bare. His glistening, pale lavender lids were shut,
though of course he didn't sleep. A perfect statue, carved in some unknown stone, smooth like marble,
glittering like crystal.
Now and then, his lips would move, so fast it looked like they were trembling. But, when I asked, he told
me he was singing to himself; it was too low for me to hear.
I enjoyed the sun, too, though the air wasn't quite dry enough for my taste. I would have liked to lie back,
as he did, and let the sun warm my face. But I stayed curled up, my chin resting on my knees, unwilling to
take my eyes off him. The wind was gentle; it tangled my hair and ruffled the grass that swayed around
his motionless form.
The meadow, so spectacular to me at first, paled next to his magnificence.
Hesitantly, always afraid, even now, that he would disappear like a mirage, too beautiful to be real...
hesitantly, I reached out one finger and stroked the back of his shimmering hand, where it lay within my
reach. I marveled again at the perfect texture, satin smooth, cool as stone. When I looked up again, his
eyes were open, watching me. Butterscotch today, lighter, warmer after hunting. His quick smile turned
up the corners of his flawless lips.
"I don't scare you?" he asked playfully, but I could hear the real curiosity in his soft voice.
"No more than usual."
He smiled wider; his teeth flashed in the sun.
I inched closer, stretched out my whole hand now to trace the contours of his forearm with my fingertips.
I saw that my fingers trembled, and knew it wouldn't escape his notice.
"Do you mind?" I asked, for he had closed his eyes again.
"No," he said without opening his eyes. "You can't imagine how that feels." He sighed.
I lightly trailed my hand over the perfect muscles of his arm, followed the faint pattern of bluish veins
inside the crease at his elbow. With my other hand, I reached to turn his hand over. Realizing what I
wished, he flipped his palm up in one of those blindingly fast, disconcerting movements of his. It startled
me; my fingers froze on his arm for a brief second.
"Sorry," he murmured. I looked up in time to see his golden eyes close again. "It's too easy to be myself
with you."
I lifted his hand, turning it this way and that as I watched the sun glitter on his palm. I held it closer to my
face, trying to see the hidden facets in his skin."Tell me what you're thinking," he whispered. I looked to see his eyes watching me, suddenly intent. "It's
still so strange for me, not knowing."
"You know, the rest of us feel that way all the time."
"It's a hard life." Did I imagine the hint of regret in his tone? "But you didn't tell me."
"I was wishing I could know what you were thinking..." I hesitated.
"And?"
"I was wishing that I could believe that you were real. And I was wishing that I wasn't afraid."
"I don't want you to be afraid." His voice was just a soft murmur. I heard what he couldn't truthfully say,
that I didn't need to be afraid, that there was nothing to fear.
"Well, that's not exactly the fear I meant, though that's certainly something to think about."
So quickly that I missed his movement, he was half sitting, propped up on his right arm, his left palm still
in my hands. His angel's face was only a few inches from mine. I might have — should have — flinched
away from his unexpected closeness, but I was unable to move. His golden eyes mesmerized me.
"What are you afraid of, then?" he whispered intently.
But I couldn't answer. As I had just that once before, I smelled his cool breath in my face. Sweet,
delicious, the scent made my mouth water. It was unlike anything else. Instinctively, unthinkingly, I leaned
closer, inhaling.
And he was gone, his hand ripped from mine. In the time it took my eyes to focus, he was twenty feet
away, standing at the edge of the small meadow, in the deep shade of a huge fir tree. He stared at me, his
eyes dark in the shadows, his expression unreadable.
I could feel the hurt and shock on my face. My empty hands stung.
"I'm... sorry... Edward," I whispered. I knew he could hear.
"Give me a moment," he called, just loud enough for my less sensitive ears. I sat very still.
After ten incredibly long seconds, he walked back, slowly for him. He stopped, still several feet away,
and sank gracefully to the ground, crossing his legs. His eyes never left mine. He took two deep breaths,
and then smiled in apology.
"I am so very sorry." He hesitated. "Would you understand what I meant if I said I was only human?"
I nodded once, not quite able to smile at his joke. Adrenaline pulsed through my veins as the realization
of danger slowly sank in. He could smell that from where he sat. His smile turned mocking.
"I'm the world's best predator, aren't I? Everything about me invites you in — my voice, my face, even
my smell. As if I need any of that!" Unexpectedly, he was on his feet, bounding away, instantly out of
sight, only to appear beneath the same tree as before, having circled the meadow in half a second.
"As if you could outrun me," he laughed bitterly.
He reached up with one hand and, with a deafening crack, effortlessly ripped a two-foot-thick branch
from the trunk of the spruce. He balanced it in that hand for a moment, and then threw it with blindingspeed, shattering it against another huge tree, which shook and trembled at the blow.
And he was in front of me again, standing two feet away, still as a stone.
"As if you could fight me off," he said gently.
I sat without moving, more frightened of him than I had ever been. I'd never seen him so completely freed
of that carefully cultivated facade. He'd never been less human... or more beautiful. Face ashen, eyes
wide, I sat like a bird locked in the eyes of a snake.
His lovely eyes seem to glow with rash excitement. Then, as the seconds passed, they dimmed. His
expression slowly folded into a mask of ancient sadness.
"Don't be afraid," he murmured, his velvet voice unintentionally seductive. "I promise..." He hesitated. "I
swear not to hurt you." He seemed more concerned with convincing himself than me.
"Don't be afraid," he whispered again as he stepped closer, with exaggerated slowness. He sat sinuously,
with deliberately unhurried movements, till our faces were on the same level, just a foot apart.
"Please forgive me," he said formally. "I can control myself. You caught me off guard. But I'm on my best
behavior now."
He waited, but I still couldn't speak.
"I'm not thirsty today, honestly." He winked.
At that I had to laugh, though the sound was shaky and breathless.
"Are you all right?" he asked tenderly, reaching out slowly, carefully, to place his marble hand back in
mine.
I looked at his smooth, cold hand, and then at his eyes. They were soft, repentant. I looked back at his
hand, and then deliberately returned to tracing the lines in his hand with my fingertip. I looked up and
smiled timidly.
His answering smile was dazzling.
"So where were we, before I behaved so rudely?" he asked in the gentle cadences of an earlier century.
"I honestly can't remember."
He smiled, but his face was ashamed. "I think we were talking about why you were afraid, besides the
obvious reason."
"Oh, right."
"Well?"
I looked down at his hand and doodled aimlessly across his smooth, iridescent palm. The seconds ticked
by.
"How easily frustrated I am," he sighed. I looked into his eyes, abruptly grasping that this was every bit as
new to him as it was to me. As many years of unfathomable experience as he had, this was hard for him,
too. I took courage from that thought."I was afraid... because, for, well, obvious reasons, I can't stay with you. And I'm afraid that I'd like to
stay with you, much more than I should." I looked down at his hands as I spoke. It was difficult for me to
say this aloud.
"Yes," he agreed slowly. "That is something to be afraid of, indeed. Wanting to be with me. That's really
not in your best interest."
I frowned.
"I should have left long ago," he sighed. "I should leave now. But I don't know if I can."
"I don't want you to leave," I mumbled pathetically, staring down again.
"Which is exactly why I should. But don't worry. I'm essentially a selfish creature. I crave your company
too much to do what I should."
"I'm glad."
"Don't be!" He withdrew his hand, more gently this time; his voice was harsher than usual. Harsh for him,
still more beautiful than any human voice. It was hard to keep up — his sudden mood changes left me
always a step behind, dazed.
"It's not only your company I crave! Never forget that. Never forget I am more dangerous to you than I
am to anyone else." He stopped, and I looked to see him gazing unseeingly into the forest.
I thought for a moment.
"I don't think I understand exactly what you mean — by that last part anyway," I said.
He looked back at me and smiled, his mood shifting yet again.
"How do I explain?" he mused. "And without frightening you again... hmmmm." Without seeming to think
about it, he placed his hand back in mine; I held it tightly in both of mine. He looked at our hands.
"That's amazingly pleasant, the warmth." He sighed.
A moment passed as he assembled his thoughts.
"You know how everyone enjoys different flavors?" he began. "Some people love chocolate ice cream,
others prefer strawberry?"
I nodded.
"Sorry about the food analogy — I couldn't think of another way to explain."
I smiled. He smiled ruefully back.
"You see, every person smells different, has a different essence. If you locked an alcoholic in a room full
of stale beer, he'd gladly drink it. But he could resist, if he wished to, if he were a recovering alcoholic.
Now let's say you placed in that room a glass of hundred-year-old brandy, the rarest, finest cognac —
and filled the room with its warm aroma — how do you think he would fare then?"
We sat silently, looking into each other's eyes — trying to read each other's thoughts.
He broke the silence first."Maybe that's not the right comparison. Maybe it would be too easy to turn down the brandy. Perhaps I
should have made our alcoholic a heroin addict instead."
"So what you're saying is, I'm your brand of heroin?" I teased, trying to lighten the mood.
He smiled swiftly, seeming to appreciate my effort. "Yes, you are exactly my brand of heroin."
"Does that happen often?" I asked.
He looked across the treetops, thinking through his response.
"I spoke to my brothers about it." He still stared into the distance. "To Jasper, every one of you is much
the same. He's the most recent to join our family. It's a struggle for him to abstain at all. He hasn't had
time to grow sensitive to the differences in smell, in flavor." He glanced swiftly at me, his expression
apologetic.
"Sorry," he said.
"I don't mind. Please don't worry about offending me, or frightening me, or whichever. That's the way
you think. I can understand, or I can try to at least. Just explain however you can."
He took a deep breath and gazed at the sky again.
"So Jasper wasn't sure if he'd ever come across someone who was as" — he hesitated, looking for the
right word — "appealing as you are to me. Which makes me think not. Emmett has been on the wagon
longer, so to speak, and he understood what I meant. He says twice, for him, once stronger than the
other."
"And for you?"
"Never."
The word hung there for a moment in the warm breeze.
"What did Emmett do?" I asked to break the silence.
It was the wrong question to ask. His face grew dark, his hand clenched into a fist inside mine. He
looked away. I waited, but he wasn't going to answer.
"I guess I know," I finally said.
He lifted his eyes; his expression was wistful, pleading.
"Even the strongest of us fall off the wagon, don't we?"
"What are you asking? My permission?" My voice was sharper than I'd intended. I tried to make my
tone kinder — I could guess what his honesty must cost him. "I mean, is there no hope, then?" How
calmly I could discuss my own death!
"No, no!" He was instantly contrite. "Of course there's hope! I mean, of course I won't..." He left the
sentence hanging. His eyes burned into mine. "It's different for us. Emmett... these were strangers he
happened across. It was a long time ago, and he wasn't as... practiced, as careful, as he is now."
He fell silent and watched me intently as I thought it through."So if we'd met... oh, in a dark alley or something..." I trailed off.
"It took everything I had not to jump up in the middle of that class full of children and —" He stopped
abruptly, looking away. "When you walked past me, I could have ruined everything Carlisle has built for
us, right then and there. If I hadn't been denying my thirst for the last, well, too many years, I wouldn't
have been able to stop myself." He paused, scowling at the trees.
He glanced at me grimly, both of us remembering. "You must have thought I was possessed."
"I couldn't understand why. How you could hate me so quickly..."
"To me, it was like you were some kind of demon, summoned straight from my own personal hell to ruin
me. The fragrance coming off your skin... I thought it would make me deranged that first day. In that one
hour, I thought of a hundred different ways to lure you from the room with me, to get you alone. And I
fought them each back, thinking of my family, what I could do to them. I had to run out, to get away
before I could speak the words that would make you follow..."
He looked up then at my staggered expression as I tried to absorb his bitter memories. His golden eyes
scorched from under his lashes, hypnotic and deadly.
"You would have come," he promised.
I tried to speak calmly. "Without a doubt."
He frowned down at my hands, releasing me from the force of his stare. "And then, as I tried to
rearrange my schedule in a pointless attempt to avoid you, you were there — in that close, warm little
room, the scent was maddening. I so very nearly took you then. There was only one other frail human
there — so easily dealt with."
I shivered in the warm sun, seeing my memories anew through his eyes, only now grasping the danger.
Poor Ms. Cope; I shivered again at how close I'd come to being inadvertently responsible for her death.
"But I resisted. I don't know how. I forced myself not to wait for you, not to follow you from the school.
It was easier outside, when I couldn't smell you anymore, to think clearly, to make the right decision. I
left the others near home — I was too ashamed to tell them how weak I was, they only knew something
was very wrong — and then I went straight to Carlisle, at the hospital, to tell him I was leaving."
I stared in surprise.
"I traded cars with him — he had a full tank of gas and I didn't want to stop. I didn't dare to go home, to
face Esme. She wouldn't have let me go without a scene. She would have tried to convince me that it
wasn't necessary...
"By the next morning I was in Alaska." He sounded ashamed, as if admitting a great cowardice. "I spent
two days there, with some old acquaintances... but I was homesick. I hated knowing I'd upset Esme,
and the rest of them, my adopted family. In the pure air of the mountains it was hard to believe you were
so irresistible. I convinced myself it was weak to run away. I'd dealt with temptation before, not of this
magnitude, not even close, but I was strong. Who were you, an insignificant little girl" — he grinned
suddenly — "to chase me from the place I wanted to be? So I came back..." He stared off into space.
I couldn't speak.
"I took precautions, hunting, feeding more than usual before seeing you again. I was sure that I was
strong enough to treat you like any other human. I was arrogant about it."It was unquestionably a complication that I couldn't simply read your thoughts to know what your
reaction was to me. I wasn't used to having to go to such circuitous measures, listening to your words in
Jessica's mind... her mind isn't very original, and it was annoying to have to stoop to that. And then I
couldn't know if you really meant what you said. It was all extremely irritating." He frowned at the
memory.
"I wanted you to forget my behavior that first day, if possible, so I tried to talk with you like I would with
any person. I was eager actually, hoping to decipher some of your thoughts. But you were too interesting,
I found myself caught up in your expressions... and every now and then you would stir the air with your
hand or your hair, and the scent would stun me again...
"Of course, then you were nearly crushed to death in front of my eyes. Later I thought of a perfectly
good excuse for why I acted at that moment — because if I hadn't saved you, if your blood had been
spilled there in front of me, I don't think I could have stopped myself from exposing us for what we are.
But I only thought of that excuse later. At the time, all I could think was, 'Not her.'"
He closed his eyes, lost in his agonized confession. I listened, more eager than rational. Common sense
told me I should be terrified. Instead, I was relieved to finally understand. And I was filled with
compassion for his suffering, even now, as he confessed his craving to take my life.
I finally was able to speak, though my voice was faint. "In the hospital?"
His eyes flashed up to mine. "I was appalled. I couldn't believe I had put us in danger after all, put myself
in your power — you of all people. As if I needed another motive to kill you." We both flinched as that
word slipped out. "But it had the opposite effect," he continued quickly. "I fought with Rosalie, Emmett,
and Jasper when they suggested that now was the time... the worst fight we've ever had. Carlisle sided
with me, and Alice." He grimaced when he said her name. I couldn't imagine why. "Esme told me to do
whatever I had to in order to stay." He shook his head indulgently.
"All that next day I eavesdropped on the minds of everyone you spoke to, shocked that you kept your
word. I didn't understand you at all. But I knew that I couldn't become more involved with you. I did my
very best to stay as far from you as possible. And every day the perfume of your skin, your breath, your
hair... it hit me as hard as the very first day."
He met my eyes again, and they were surprisingly tender.
"And for all that," he continued, "I'd have fared better if I had exposed us all at that first moment, than if
now, here — with no witnesses and nothing to stop me — I were to hurt you."
I was human enough to have to ask. "Why?"
"Isabella." He pronounced my full name carefully, then playfully ruffled my hair with his free hand. A
shock ran through my body at his casual touch. "Bella, I couldn't live with myself if I ever hurt you. You
don't know how it's tortured me." He looked down, ashamed again. "The thought of you, still, white,
cold... to never see you blush scarlet again, to never see that flash of intuition in your eyes when you see
through my pretenses... it would be unendurable." He lifted his glorious, agonized eyes to mine. "You are
the most important thing to me now. The most important thing to me ever."
My head was spinning at the rapid change in direction our conversation had taken. From the cheerful
topic of my impending demise, we were suddenly declaring ourselves. He waited, and even though I
looked down to study our hands between us, I knew his golden eyes were on me. "You already know
how I feel, of course," I finally said. "I'm here... which, roughly translated, means I would rather die than
stay away from you." I frowned. "I'm an idiot.""You are an idiot," he agreed with a laugh. Our eyes met, and I laughed, too. We laughed together at the
idiocy and sheer impossibility of such a moment.
"And so the lion fell in love with the lamb..." he murmured. I looked away, hiding my eyes as I thrilled to
the word.
"What a stupid lamb," I sighed.
"What a sick, masochistic lion." He stared into the shadowy forest for a long moment, and I wondered
where his thoughts had taken him.
"Why... ?" I began, and then paused, not sure how to continue.
He looked at me and smiled; sunlight glinted off his face, his teeth.
"Yes?"
"Tell me why you ran from me before."
His smile faded. "You know why."
"No, I mean, exactly what did I do wrong? I'll have to be on my guard, you see, so I better start learning
what I shouldn't do. This, for example" — I stroked the back of his hand — "seems to be all right."
He smiled again. "You didn't do anything wrong, Bella. It was my fault."
"But I want to help, if I can, to not make this harder for you."
"Well..." He contemplated for a moment. "It was just how close you were. Most humans instinctively shy
away from us, are repelled by our alienness... I wasn't expecting you to come so close. And the smell of
your throat." He stopped short, looking to see if he'd upset me.
"Okay, then," I said flippantly, trying to alleviate the suddenly tense atmosphere. I tucked my chin. "No
throat exposure."
It worked; he laughed. "No, really, it was more the surprise than anything else."
He raised his free hand and placed it gently on the side of my neck. I sat very still, the chill of his touch a
natural warning — a warning telling me to be terrified. But there was no feeling of fear in me. There were,
however, other feelings...
"You see," he said. "Perfectly fine."
My blood was racing, and I wished I could slow it, sensing that this must make everything so much more
difficult — the thudding of my pulse in my veins. Surely he could hear it.
"The blush on your cheeks is lovely," he murmured. He gently freed his other hand. My hands fell limply
into my lap. Softly he brushed my cheek, then held my face between his marble hands.
"Be very still," he whispered, as if I wasn't already frozen.
Slowly, never moving his eyes from mine, he leaned toward me. Then abruptly, but very gently, he rested
his cold cheek against the hollow at the base of my throat. I was quite unable to move, even if I'd wanted
to. I listened to the sound of his even breathing, watching the sun and wind play in his bronze hair, more
human than any other part of him.With deliberate slowness, his hands slid down the sides of my neck. I shivered, and I heard him catch his
breath. But his hands didn't pause as they softly moved to my shoulders, and then stopped.
His face drifted to the side, his nose skimming across my collarbone. He came to rest with the side of his
face pressed tenderly against my chest.
Listening to my heart.
"Ah," he sighed.
I don't know how long we sat without moving. It could have been hours. Eventually the throb of my pulse
quieted, but he didn't move or speak again as he held me. I knew at any moment it could be too much,
and my life could end — so quickly that I might not even notice. And I couldn't make myself be afraid. I
couldn't think of anything, except that he was touching me.
And then, too soon, he released me.
His eyes were peaceful.
"It won't be so hard again," he said with satisfaction.
"Was that very hard for you?"
"Not nearly as bad as I imagined it would be. And you?"
"No, it wasn't bad... for me."
He smiled at my inflection. "You know what I mean."
I smiled.
"Here." He took my hand and placed it against his cheek. "Do you feel how warm it is?"
And it was almost warm, his usually icy skin. But I barely noticed, for I was touching his face, something
I'd dreamed of constantly since the first day I'd seen him.
"Don't move," I whispered.
No one could be still like Edward. He closed his eyes and became as immobile as stone, a carving under
my hand.
I moved even more slowly than he had, careful not to make one unexpected move. I caressed his cheek,
delicately stroked his eyelid, the purple shadow in the hollow under his eye. I traced the shape of his
perfect nose, and then, so carefully, his flawless lips. His lips parted under my hand, and I could feel his
cool breath on my fingertips. I wanted to lean in, to inhale the scent of him. So I dropped my hand and
leaned away, not wanting to push him too far.
He opened his eyes, and they were hungry. Not in a way to make me fear, but rather to tighten the
muscles in the pit of my stomach and send my pulse hammering through my veins again.
"I wish," he whispered, "I wish you could feel the... complexity... the confusion... I feel. That you could
understand."
He raised his hand to my hair, then carefully brushed it across my face."Tell me," I breathed.
"I don't think I can. I've told you, on the one hand, the hunger — the thirst — that, deplorable creature
that I am, I feel for you. And I think you can understand that, to an extent. Though" — he half-smiled —
"as you are not addicted to any illegal substances, you probably can't empathize completely.
"But..." His fingers touched my lips lightly, making me shiver again. "There are other hungers. Hungers I
don't even understand, that are foreign to me."
"I may understand that better than you think."
"I'm not used to feeling so human. Is it always like this?"
"For me?" I paused. "No, never. Never before this."
He held my hands between his. They felt so feeble in his iron strength.
"I don't know how to be close to you," he admitted. "I don't know if I can."
I leaned forward very slowly, cautioning him with my eyes. I placed my cheek against his stone chest. I
could hear his breath, and nothing else.
"This is enough," I sighed, closing my eyes.
In a very human gesture, he put his arms around me and pressed his face against my hair.
"You're better at this than you give yourself credit for," I noted.
"I have human instincts — they may be buried deep, but they're there."
We sat like that for another immeasurable moment; I wondered if he could be as unwilling to move as I
was. But I could see the light was fading, the shadows of the forest beginning to touch us, and I sighed.
"You have to go."
"I thought you couldn't read my mind."
"It's getting clearer." I could hear a smile in his voice.
He took my shoulders and I looked into his face.
"Can I show you something?" he asked, sudden excitement flaring in his eyes.
"Show me what?"
"I'll show you how I travel in the forest." He saw my expression. "Don't worry, you'll be very safe, and
we'll get to your truck much faster." His mouth twitched up into that crooked smile so beautiful my heart
nearly stopped.
"Will you turn into a bat?" I asked warily.
He laughed, louder than I'd ever heard. "Like I haven't heard that one before!"
"Right, I'm sure you get that all the time."
"Come on, little coward, climb on my back."I waited to see if he was kidding, but, apparently, he meant it. He smiled as he read my hesitation, and
reached for me. My heart reacted; even though he couldn't hear my thoughts, my pulse always gave me
away. He then proceeded to sling me onto his back, with very little effort on my part, besides, when in
place, clamping my legs and arms so tightly around him that it would choke a normal person. It was like
clinging to a stone.
"I'm a bit heavier than your average backpack," I warned.
"Hah!" he snorted. I could almost hear his eyes rolling. I'd never seen him in such high spirits before.
He startled me, suddenly grabbing my hand, pressing my palm to his face, and inhaling deeply.
"Easier all the time," he muttered.
And then he was running.
If I'd ever feared death before in his presence, it was nothing compared to how I felt now.
He streaked through the dark, thick underbrush of the forest like a bullet, like a ghost. There was no
sound, no evidence that his feet touched the earth. His breathing never changed, never indicated any
effort. But the trees flew by at deadly speeds, always missing us by inches.
I was too terrified to close my eyes, though the cool forest air whipped against my face and burned them.
I felt as if I were stupidly sticking my head out the window of an airplane in flight. And, for the first time in
my life, I felt the dizzy faintness of motion sickness.
Then it was over. We'd hiked hours this morning to reach Edward's meadow, and now, in a matter of
minutes, we were back to the truck.
"Exhilarating, isn't it?" His voice was high, excited.
He stood motionless, waiting for me to climb down. I tried, but my muscles wouldn't respond. My arms
and legs stayed locked around him while my head spun uncomfortably.
"Bella?" he asked, anxious now.
"I think I need to lie down," I gasped.
"Oh, sorry." He waited for me, but I still couldn't move.
"I think I need help," I admitted.
He laughed quietly, and gently unloosened my stranglehold on his neck. There was no resisting the iron
strength of his hands. Then he pulled me around to face him, cradling me in his arms like a small child. He
held me for a moment, then carefully placed me on the springy ferns.
"How do you feel?" he asked.
I couldn't be sure how I felt when my head was spinning so crazily. "Dizzy, I think."
"Put your head between your knees."
I tried that, and it helped a little. I breathed in and out slowly, keeping my head very still. I felt him sitting
beside me. The moments passed, and eventually I found that I could raise my head. There was a hollow
ringing sound in my ears."I guess that wasn't the best idea," he mused.
I tried to be positive, but my voice was weak. "No, it was very interesting."
"Hah! You're as white as a ghost — no, you're as white as me!"
"I think I should have closed my eyes."
"Remember that next time."
"Next time!" I groaned.
He laughed, his mood still radiant.
"Show-off," I muttered.
"Open your eyes, Bella," he said quietly.
And he was right there, his face so close to mine. His beauty stunned my mind — it was too much, an
excess I couldn't grow accustomed to.
"I was thinking, while I was running..." He paused.
"About not hitting the trees, I hope."
"Silly Bella," he chuckled. "Running is second nature to me, it's not something I have to think about."
"Show-off," I muttered again.
He smiled.
"No," he continued, "I was thinking there was something I wanted to try." And he took my face in his
hands again.
I couldn't breathe.
He hesitated — not in the normal way, the human way.
Not the way a man might hesitate before he kissed a woman, to gauge her reaction, to see how he would
be received. Perhaps he would hesitate to prolong the moment, that ideal moment of anticipation,
sometimes better than the kiss itself.
Edward hesitated to test himself, to see if this was safe, to make sure he was still in control of his need.
And then his cold, marble lips pressed very softly against mine.
What neither of us was prepared for was my response.
Blood boiled under my skin, burned in my lips. My breath came in a wild gasp. My fingers knotted in his
hair, clutching him to me. My lips parted as I breathed in his heady scent.
Immediately I felt him turn to unresponsive stone beneath my lips. His hands gently, but with irresistible
force, pushed my face back. I opened my eyes and saw his guarded expression.
"Oops," I breathed."That's an understatement."
His eyes were wild, his jaw clenched in acute restraint, yet he didn't lapse from his perfect articulation.
He held my face just inches from his. He dazzled my eyes.
"Should I... ?" I tried to disengage myself, to give him some room.
His hands refused to let me move so much as an inch.
"No, it's tolerable. Wait for a moment, please." His voice was polite, controlled.
I kept my eyes on his, watched as the excitement in them faded and gentled.
Then he smiled a surprisingly impish grin.
"There," he said, obviously pleased with himself.
"Tolerable?" I asked.
He laughed aloud. "I'm stronger than I thought. It's nice to know."
"I wish I could say the same. I'm sorry."
"You are only human, after all."
"Thanks so much," I said, my voice acerbic.
He was on his feet in one of his lithe, almost invisibly quick movements. He held out his hand to me, an
unexpected gesture. I was so used to our standard of careful non-contact. I took his icy hand, needing
the support more than I thought. My balance had not yet returned.
"Are you still faint from the run? Or was it my kissing expertise?" How lighthearted, how human he
seemed as he laughed now, his seraphic face untroubled. He was a different Edward than the one I had
known. And I felt all the more besotted by him. It would cause me physical pain to be separated from
him now.
"I can't be sure, I'm still woozy," I managed to respond. "I think it's some of both, though."
"Maybe you should let me drive."
"Are you insane?" I protested.
"I can drive better than you on your best day," he teased. "You have much slower reflexes."
"I'm sure that's true, but I don't think my nerves, or my truck, could take it."
"Some trust, please, Bella."
My hand was in my pocket, curled tightly around the key. I pursed my lips, deliberated, then shook my
head with a tight grin.
"Nope. Not a chance."
He raised his eyebrows in disbelief.
I started to step around him, heading for the driver's side. He might have let me pass if I hadn't wobbledslightly. Then again, he might not have. His arm created an inescapable snare around my waist.
"Bella, I've already expended a great deal of personal effort at this point to keep you alive. I'm not about
to let you behind the wheel of a vehicle when you can't even walk straight. Besides, friends don't let
friends drive drunk," he quoted with a chuckle. I could smell the unbearably sweet fragrance coming off
his chest.
"Drunk?" I objected.
"You're intoxicated by my very presence." He was grinning that playful smirk again.
"I can't argue with that," I sighed. There was no way around it; I couldn't resist him in anything. I held the
key high and dropped it, watching his hand flash like lightning to catch it soundlessly. "Take it easy — my
truck is a senior citizen."
"Very sensible," he approved.
"And are you not affected at all?" I asked, irked. "By my presence?"
Again his mobile features transformed, his expression became soft, warm. He didn't answer at first; he
simply bent his face to mine, and brushed his lips slowly along my jaw, from my ear to my chin, back and
forth. I trembled.
"Regardless," he finally murmured, "I have better reflexes."
14. MIND OVER MATTER
He could drive well, when he kept the speed reasonable, I had to admit. Like so many things, it seemed
to be effortless to him. He barely looked at the road, yet the tires never deviated so much as a centimeter
from the center of the lane. He drove one-handed, holding my hand on the seat. Sometimes he gazed into
the setting sun, sometimes he glanced at me — my face, my hair blowing out the open window, our
hands twined together.
He had turned the radio to an oldies station, and he sang along with a song I'd never heard. He knew
every line.
"You like fifties music?" I asked.
"Music in the fifties was good. Much better than the sixties, or the seventies, ugh!" He shuddered. "The
eighties were bearable."
"Are you ever going to tell me how old you are?" I asked, tentative, not wanting to upset his buoyant
humor.
"Does it matter much?" His smile, to my relief, remained unclouded.
"No, but I still wonder..." I grimaced. "There's nothing like an unsolved mystery to keep you up at night."
"I wonder if it will upset you," he reflected to himself. He gazed into the sun; the minutes passed.
"Try me," I finally said.He sighed, and then looked into my eyes, seeming to forget the road completely for a time. Whatever he
saw there must have encouraged him. He looked into the sun — the light of the setting orb glittered off
his skin in ruby-tinged sparkles — and spoke.
"I was born in Chicago in 1901." He paused and glanced at me from the corner of his eyes. My face was
carefully unsurprised, patient for the rest. He smiled a tiny smile and continued. "Carlisle found me in a
hospital in the summer of 1918. I was seventeen, and dying of the Spanish influenza."
He heard my intake of breath, though it was barely audible to my own ears. He looked down into my
eyes again.
"I don't remember it well — it was a very long time ago, and human memories fade." He was lost in his
thoughts for a short time before he went on. "I do remember how it felt, when Carlisle saved me. It's not
an easy thing, not something you could forget."
"Your parents?"
"They had already died from the disease. I was alone. That was why he chose me. In all the chaos of the
epidemic, no one would ever realize I was gone."
"How did he... save you?"
A few seconds passed before he answered. He seemed to choose his words carefully.
"It was difficult. Not many of us have the restraint necessary to accomplish it. But Carlisle has always
been the most humane, the most compassionate of us... I don't think you could find his equal throughout
all of history." He paused. "For me, it was merely very, very painful."
I could tell from the set of his lips, he would say no more on this subject. I suppressed my curiosity,
though it was far from idle. There were many things I needed to think through on this particular issue,
things that were only beginning to occur to me. No doubt his quick mind had already comprehended
every aspect that eluded me.
His soft voice interrupted my thoughts. "He acted from loneliness. That's usually the reason behind the
choice. I was the first in Carlisle's family, though he found Esme soon after. She fell from a cliff. They
brought her straight to the hospital morgue, though, somehow, her heart was still beating."
"So you must be dying, then, to become..." We never said the word, and I couldn't frame it now.
"No, that's just Carlisle. He would never do that to someone who had another choice." The respect in his
voice was profound whenever he spoke of his father figure. "It is easier he says, though," he continued, "if
the blood is weak." He looked at the now-dark road, and I could feel the subject closing again.
"And Emmett and Rosalie?"
"Carlisle brought Rosalie to our family next. I didn't realize till much later that he was hoping she would be
to me what Esme was to him — he was careful with his thoughts around me." He rolled his eyes. "But
she was never more than a sister. It was only two years later that she found Emmett. She was hunting —
we were in Appalachia at the time — and found a bear about to finish him off. She carried him back to
Carlisle, more than a hundred miles, afraid she wouldn't be able to do it herself. I'm only beginning to
guess how difficult that journey was for her." He threw a pointed glance in my direction, and raised our
hands, still folded together, to brush my cheek with the back of his hand.
"But she made it," I encouraged, looking away from the unbearable beauty of his eyes."Yes," he murmured. "She saw something in his face that made her strong enough. And they've been
together ever since. Sometimes they live separately from us, as a married couple. But the younger we
pretend to be, the longer we can stay in any given place. Forks seemed perfect, so we all enrolled in high
school." He laughed. "I suppose we'll have to go to their wedding in a few years, again."
"Alice and Jasper?"
"Alice and Jasper are two very rare creatures. They both developed a conscience, as we refer to it, with
no outside guidance. Jasper belonged to another... family, a very different kind of family. He became
depressed, and he wandered on his own. Alice found him. Like me, she has certain gifts above and
beyond the norm for our kind."
"Really?" I interrupted, fascinated. "But you said you were the only one who could hear people's
thoughts."
"That's true. She knows other things. She sees things — things that might happen, things that are coming.
But it's very subjective. The future isn't set in stone. Things change."
His jaw set when he said that, and his eyes darted to my face and away so quickly that I wasn't sure if I
only imagined it.
"What kinds of things does she see?"
"She saw Jasper and knew that he was looking for her before he knew it himself. She saw Carlisle and
our family, and they came together to find us. She's most sensitive to non-humans. She always sees, for
example, when another group of our kind is coming near. And any threat they may pose."
"Are there a lot of... your kind?" I was surprised. How many of them could walk among us undetected?
"No, not many. But most won't settle in any one place. Only those like us, who've given up hunting you
people" — a sly glance in my direction — "can live together with humans for any length of time. We've
only found one other family like ours, in a small village in Alaska. We lived together for a time, but there
were so many of us that we became too noticeable. Those of us who live... differently tend to band
together."
"And the others?"
"Nomads, for the most part. We've all lived that way at times. It gets tedious, like anything else. But we
run across the others now and then, because most of us prefer the North."
"Why is that?"
We were parked in front of my house now, and he'd turned off the truck. It was very quiet and dark;
there was no moon. The porch light was off so I knew my father wasn't home yet.
"Did you have your eyes open this afternoon?" he teased. "Do you think I could walk down the street in
the sunlight without causing traffic accidents? There's a reason why we chose the Olympic Peninsula, one
of the most sunless places in the world. It's nice to be able to go outside in the day. You wouldn't believe
how tired you can get of nighttime in eighty-odd years."
"So that's where the legends came from?"
"Probably.""And Alice came from another family, like Jasper?"
"No, and that is a mystery. Alice doesn't remember her human life at all. And she doesn't know who
created her. She awoke alone. Whoever made her walked away, and none of us understand why, or
how, he could. If she hadn't had that other sense, if she hadn't seen Jasper and Carlisle and known that
she would someday become one of us, she probably would have turned into a total savage."
There was so much to think through, so much I still wanted to ask. But, to my great embarrassment, my
stomach growled. I'd been so intrigued, I hadn't even noticed I was hungry. I realized now that I was
ravenous.
"I'm sorry, I'm keeping you from dinner."
"I'm fine, really."
"I've never spent much time around anyone who eats food. I forget."
"I want to stay with you." It was easier to say in the darkness, knowing as I spoke how my voice would
betray me, my hopeless addiction to him.
"Can't I come in?" he asked.
"Would you like to?" I couldn't picture it, this godlike creature sitting in my father's shabby kitchen chair.
"Yes, if it's all right." I heard the door close quietly, and almost simultaneously he was outside my door,
opening it for me.
"Very human," I complimented him.
"It's definitely resurfacing."
He walked beside me in the night, so quietly I had to peek at him constantly to be sure he was still there.
In the darkness he looked much more normal. Still pale, still dreamlike in his beauty, but no longer the
fantastic sparkling creature of our sunlit afternoon.
He reached the door ahead of me and opened it for me. I paused halfway through the frame.
"The door was unlocked?"
"No, I used the key from under the eave."
I stepped inside, flicked on the porch light, and turned to look at him with my eyebrows raised. I was
sure I'd never used that key in front of him.
"I was curious about you."
"You spied on me?" But somehow I couldn't infuse my voice with the proper outrage. I was flattered.
He was unrepentant. "What else is there to do at night?"
I let it go for the moment and went down the hall to the kitchen. He was there before me, needing no
guide. He sat in the very chair I'd tried to picture him in. His beauty lit up the kitchen. It was a moment
before I could look away.
I concentrated on getting my dinner, taking last night's lasagna from the fridge, placing a square on aplate, heating it in the microwave. It revolved, filling the kitchen with the smell of tomatoes and oregano. I
didn't take my eyes from the plate of food as I spoke.
"How often?" I asked casually.
"Hmmm?" He sounded as if I had pulled him from some other train of thought.
I still didn't turn around. "How often did you come here?"
"I come here almost every night."
I whirled, stunned. "Why?"
"You're interesting when you sleep." He spoke matter-of-factly. "You talk."
"No!" I gasped, heat flooding my face all the way to my hairline. I gripped the kitchen counter for
support. I knew I talked in my sleep, of course; my mother teased me about it. I hadn't thought it was
something I needed to worry about here, though.
His expression shifted instantly to chagrin. "Are you very angry with me?"
"That depends!" I felt and sounded like I'd had the breath knocked out of me.
He waited.
"On?" he urged.
"What you heard!" I wailed.
Instantly, silently, he was at my side, taking my hands carefully in his.
"Don't be upset!" he pleaded. He dropped his face to the level of my eyes, holding my gaze. I was
embarrassed. I tried to look away.
"You miss your mother," he whispered. "You worry about her. And when it rains, the sound makes you
restless. You used to talk about home a lot, but it's less often now. Once you said, 'It's too green.'" He
laughed softly, hoping, I could see, not to offend me further.
"Anything else?" I demanded.
He knew what I was getting at. "You did say my name," he admitted.
I sighed in defeat. "A lot?"
"How much do you mean by 'a lot,' exactly?"
"Oh no!" I hung my head.
He pulled me against his chest, softly, naturally.
"Don't be self-conscious," he whispered in my ear. "If I could dream at all, it would be about you. And
I'm not ashamed of it."
Then we both heard the sound of tires on the brick driveway, saw the headlights flash through the front
windows, down the hall to us. I stiffened in his arms."Should your father know I'm here?" he asked.
"I'm not sure..." I tried to think it through quickly.
"Another time then..."
And I was alone.
"Edward!" I hissed.
I heard a ghostly chuckle, then nothing else.
My father's key turned in the door.
"Bella?" he called. It had bothered me before; who else would it be? Suddenly he didn't seem so far off
base.
"In here." I hoped he couldn't hear the hysterical edge to my voice. I grabbed my dinner from the
microwave and sat at the table as he walked in. His footsteps sounded so noisy after my day with
Edward.
"Can you get me some of that? I'm bushed." He stepped on the heels of his boots to take them off,
holding the back of Edward's chair for support.
I took my food with me, scarfing it down as I got his dinner. It burned my tongue. I filled two glasses with
milk while his lasagna was heating, and gulped mine to put out the fire. As I set the glass down, I noticed
the milk trembling and realized my hand was shaking. Charlie sat in the chair, and the contrast between
him and its former occupant was comical.
"Thanks," he said as I placed his food on the table.
"How was your day?" I asked. The words were rushed; I was dying to escape to my room.
"Good. The fish were biting... how about you? Did you get everything done that you wanted to?"
"Not really — it was too nice out to stay indoors." I took another big bite.
"It was a nice day," he agreed. What an understatement, I thought to myself.
Finished with the last bite of lasagna, I lifted my glass and chugged the remains of my milk.
Charlie surprised me by being observant. "In a hurry?"
"Yeah, I'm tired. I'm going to bed early."
"You look kinda keyed up," he noted. Why, oh why, did this have to be his night to pay attention?
"Do I?" was all I could manage in response. I quickly scrubbed my dishes clean in the sink, and placed
them upside down on a dish towel to dry.
"It's Saturday," he mused.
I didn't respond.
"No plans tonight?" he asked suddenly."No, Dad, I just want to get some sleep."
"None of the boys in town your type, eh?" He was suspicious, but trying to play it cool.
"No, none of the boys have caught my eye yet." I was careful not to over-emphasize the word boys in
my quest to be truthful with Charlie.
"I thought maybe that Mike Newton... you said he was friendly."
"He's Just a friend, Dad."
"Well, you're too good for them all, anyway. Wait till you get to college to start looking." Every father's
dream, that his daughter will be out of the house before the hormones kick in.
"Sounds like a good idea to me," I agreed as I headed up the stairs.
"'Night, honey," he called after me. No doubt he would be listening carefully all evening, waiting for me to
try to sneak out.
"See you in the morning, Dad." See you creeping into my room tonight at midnight to check on me.
I worked to make my tread sound slow and tired as I walked up the stairs to my room. I shut the door
loud enough for him to hear, and then sprinted on my tiptoes to the window. I threw it open and leaned
out into the night. My eyes scanned the darkness, the impenetrable shadows of the trees.
"Edward?" I whispered, feeling completely idiotic.
The quiet, laughing response came from behind me. "Yes?"
I whirled, one hand flying to my throat in surprise.
He lay, smiling hugely, across my bed, his hands behind his head, his feet dangling off the end, the picture
of ease.
"Oh!" I breathed, sinking unsteadily to the floor.
"I'm sorry." He pressed his lips together, trying to hide his amusement.
"Just give me a minute to restart my heart."
He sat up slowly, so as not to startle me again. Then he leaned forward and reached out with his long
arms to pick me up, gripping the tops of my arms like I was a toddler. He sat me on the bed beside him.
"Why don't you sit with me," he suggested, putting a cold hand on mine. "How's the heart?"
"You tell me — I'm sure you hear it better than I do."
I felt his quiet laughter shake the bed.
We sat there for a moment in silence, both listening to my heartbeat slow. I thought about having Edward
in my room, with my father in the house.
"Can I have a minute to be human?" I asked.
"Certainly." He gestured with one hand that I should proceed."Stay," I said, trying to look severe.
"Yes, ma'am." And he made a show of becoming a statue on the edge of my bed.
I hopped up, grabbing my pajamas from off the floor, my bag of toiletries off the desk. I left the light off
and slipped out, closing the door.
I could hear the sound from the TV rising up the stairs. I banged the bathroom door loudly, so Charlie
wouldn't come up to bother me.
I meant to hurry. I brushed my teeth fiercely, trying to be thorough and speedy, removing all traces of
lasagna. But the hot water of the shower couldn't be rushed. It unknotted the muscles in my back, calmed
my pulse. The familiar smell of my shampoo made me feel like I might be the same person I had been this
morning. I tried not to think of Edward, sitting in my room, waiting, because then I had to start all over
with the calming process. Finally, I couldn't delay anymore. I shut off the water, toweling hastily, rushing
again. I pulled on my holey t-shirt and gray sweatpants. Too late to regret not packing the Victoria's
Secret silk pajamas my mother got me two birthdays ago, which still had the tags on them in a drawer
somewhere back home.
I rubbed the towel through my hair again, and then yanked the brush through it quickly. I threw the towel
in the hamper, flung my brush and toothpaste into my bag. Then I dashed down the stairs so Charlie
could see that I was in my pajamas, with wet hair.
"'Night, Dad."
"'Night, Bella." He did look startled by my appearance. Maybe that would keep him from checking on
me tonight.
I took the stairs two at a time, trying to be quiet, and flew into my room, closing the door tightly behind
me.
Edward hadn't moved a fraction of an inch, a carving of Adonis perched on my faded quilt. I smiled, and
his lips twitched, the statue coming to life.
His eyes appraised me, taking in the damp hair, the tattered shirt. He raised one eyebrow. "Nice."
I grimaced.
"No, it looks good on you."
"Thanks," I whispered. I went back to his side, sitting cross-legged beside him. I looked at the lines in the
wooden floor.
"What was all that for?"
"Charlie thinks I'm sneaking out."
"Oh." He contemplated that. "Why?" As if he couldn't know Charlie's mind much more clearly than I
could guess.
"Apparently, I look a little overexcited."
He lifted my chin, examining my face.
"You look very warm, actually."He bent his face slowly to mine, laying his cool cheek against my skin. I held perfectly still.
"Mmmmmm..." he breathed.
It was very difficult, while he was touching me, to frame a coherent question. It took me a minute of
scattered concentration to begin.
"It seems to be... much easier for you, now, to be close to me."
"Does it seem that way to you?" he murmured, his nose gliding to the corner of my jaw. I felt his hand,
lighter than a moth's wing, brushing my damp hair back, so that his lips could touch the hollow beneath
my ear.
"Much, much easier," I said, trying to exhale.
"Hmm."
"So I was wondering..." I began again, but his fingers were slowly tracing my collarbone, and I lost my
train of thought.
"Yes?" he breathed.
"Why is that," my voice shook, embarrassing me, "do you think?"
I felt the tremor of his breath on my neck as he laughed. "Mind over matter."
I pulled back; as I moved, he froze — and I could no longer hear the sound of his breathing.
We stared cautiously at each other for a moment, and then, as his clenched jaw gradually relaxed, his
expression became puzzled.
"Did I do something wrong?"
"No — the opposite. You're driving me crazy," I explained.
He considered that briefly, and when he spoke, he sounded pleased. "Really?" A triumphant smile slowly
lit his face.
"Would you like a round of applause?" I asked sarcastically.
He grinned.
"I'm just pleasantly surprised," he clarified. "In the last hundred years or so," his voice was teasing, "I
never imagined anything like this. I didn't believe I would ever find someone I wanted to be with... in
another way than my brothers and sisters. And then to find, even though it's all new to me, that I'm good
at it... at being with you..."
"You're good at everything," I pointed out.
He shrugged, allowing that, and we both laughed in whispers.
"But how can it be so easy now?" I pressed. "This afternoon..."
"It's not easy," he sighed. "But this afternoon, I was still... undecided. I am sorry about that, it was
unforgivable for me to behave so.""Not unforgivable," I disagreed.
"Thank you." He smiled. "You see," he continued, looking down now, "I wasn't sure if I was strong
enough..." He picked up one of my hands and pressed it lightly to his face. "And while there was still that
possibility that I might be... overcome" — he breathed in the scent at my wrist — "I was... susceptible.
Until I made up my mind that I was strong enough, that there was no possibility at all that I would... that
I ever could..."
I'd never seen him struggle so hard for words. It was so... human.
"So there's no possibility now?"
"Mind over matter," he repeated, smiling, his teeth bright even in the darkness.
"Wow, that was easy," I said.
He threw back his head and laughed, quietly as a whisper, but still exuberantly.
"Easy for you!" he amended, touching my nose with his fingertip.
And then his face was abruptly serious.
"I'm trying," he whispered, his voice pained. "If it gets to be... too much, I'm fairly sure I'll be able to
leave."
I scowled. I didn't like the talk of leaving.
"And it will be harder tomorrow," he continued. "I've had the scent of you in my head all day, and I've
grown amazingly desensitized. If I'm away from you for any length of time, I'll have to start over again.
Not quite from scratch, though, I think."
"Don't go away, then," I responded, unable to hide the longing in my voice.
"That suits me," he replied, his face relaxing into a gentle smile. "Bring on the shackles — I'm your
prisoner." But his long hands formed manacles around my wrists as he spoke. He laughed his quiet,
musical laugh. He'd laughed more tonight than I'd ever heard in all the time I'd spent with him.
"You seem more... optimistic than usual," I observed. "I haven't seen you like this before."
"Isn't it supposed to be like this?" He smiled. "The glory of first love, and all that. It's incredible, isn't it,
the difference between reading about something, seeing it in the pictures, and experiencing it?"
"Very different," I agreed. "More forceful than I'd imagined."
"For example" — his words flowed swiftly now, I had to concentrate to catch it all — "the emotion of
jealousy. I've read about it a hundred thousand times, seen actors portray it in a thousand different plays
and movies. I believed I understood that one pretty clearly. But it shocked me..." He grimaced. "Do you
remember the day that Mike asked you to the dance?"
I nodded, though I remembered that day for a different reason. "The day you started talking to me again."
"I was surprised by the flare of resentment, almost fury, that I felt — I didn't recognize what it was at
first. I was even more aggravated than usual that I couldn't know what you were thinking, why you
refused him. Was it simply for your friend's sake? Was there someone else? I knew I had no right to care
either way. I tried not to care."And then the line started forming," he chuckled. I scowled in the darkness.
"I waited, unreasonably anxious to hear what you would say to them, to watch your expressions. I
couldn't deny the relief I felt, watching the annoyance on your face. But I couldn't be sure.
"That was the first night I came here. I wrestled all night, while watching you sleep, with the chasm
between what I knew was right, moral, ethical, and what I wanted. I knew that if I continued to ignore
you as I should, or if I left for a few years, till you were gone, that someday you would say yes to Mike,
or someone like him. It made me angry.
"And then," he whispered, "as you were sleeping, you said my name. You spoke so clearly, at first I
thought you'd woken. But you rolled over restlessly and mumbled my name once more, and sighed. The
feeling that coursed through me then was unnerving, staggering. And I knew I couldn't ignore you any
longer." He was silent for a moment, probably listening to the suddenly uneven pounding of my heart.
"But jealousy... it's a strange thing. So much more powerful than I would have thought. And irrational!
Just now, when Charlie asked you about that vile Mike Newton..." He shook his head angrily.
"I should have known you'd be listening," I groaned.
"Of course."
"That made you feel jealous, though, really?"
"I'm new at this; you're resurrecting the human in me, and everything feels stronger because it's fresh."
"But honestly," I teased, "for that to bother you, after I have to hear that Rosalie — Rosalie, the
incarnation of pure beauty, Rosalie — was meant for you. Emmett or no Emmett, how can I compete
with that?"
"There's no competition." His teeth gleamed. He drew my trapped hands around his back, holding me to
his chest. I kept as still as I could, even breathing with caution.
"I know there's no competition," I mumbled into his cold skin. "That's the problem."
"Of course Rosalie is beautiful in her way, but even if she wasn't like a sister to me, even if Emmett didn't
belong with her, she could never have one tenth, no, one hundredth of the attraction you hold for me." He
was serious now, thoughtful. "For almost ninety years I've walked among my kind, and yours... all the
time thinking I was complete in myself, not realizing what I was seeking. And not finding anything,
because you weren't alive yet."
"It hardly seems fair," I whispered, my face still resting on his chest, listening to his breath come and go. "I
haven't had to wait at all. Why should I get off so easily?"
"You're right," he agreed with amusement. "I should make this harder for you, definitely." He freed one of
his hands, released my wrist, only to gather it carefully into his other hand. He stroked my wet hair softly,
from the top of my head to my waist. "You only have to risk your life every second you spend with me,
that's surely not much. You only have to turn your back on nature, on humanity... what's that worth?"
"Very little — I don't feel deprived of anything."
"Not yet." And his voice was abruptly full of ancient grief.
I tried to pull back, to look in his face, but his hand locked my wrists in an unbreakable hold."What —" I started to ask, when his body became alert. I froze, but he suddenly released my hands, and
disappeared. I narrowly avoided falling on my face.
"Lie down!" he hissed. I couldn't tell where he spoke from in the darkness.
I rolled under my quilt, balling up on my side, the way I usually slept. I heard the door crack open, as
Charlie peeked in to make sure I was where I was supposed to be. I breathed evenly, exaggerating the
movement.
A long minute passed. I listened, not sure if I'd heard the door close. Then Edward's cool arm was
around me, under the covers, his lips at my ear.
"You are a terrible actress — I'd say that career path is out for you."
"Darn it," I muttered. My heart was crashing in my chest.
He hummed a melody I didn't recognize; it sounded like a lullaby.
He paused. "Should I sing you to sleep?"
"Right," I laughed. "Like I could sleep with you here!"
"You do it all the time," he reminded me.
"But I didn't know you were here," I replied icily.
"So if you don't want to sleep..." he suggested, ignoring my tone. My breath caught.
"If I don't want to sleep... ?"
He chuckled. "What do you want to do then?"
I couldn't answer at first.
"I'm not sure," I finally said.
"Tell me when you decide."
I could feel his cool breath on my neck, feel his nose sliding along my jaw, inhaling.
"I thought you were desensitized."
"Just because I'm resisting the wine doesn't mean I can't appreciate the bouquet," he whispered. "You
have a very floral smell, like lavender... or freesia," he noted. "It's mouthwatering."
"Yeah, it's an off day when I don't get somebody telling me how edible I smell."
He chuckled, and then sighed.
"I've decided what I want to do," I told him. "I want to hear more about you."
"Ask me anything."
I sifted through my questions for the most vital. "Why do you do it?" I said. "I still don't understand how
you can work so hard to resist what you... are. Please don't misunderstand, of course I'm glad that you
do. I just don't see why you would bother in the first place."He hesitated before answering. "That's a good question, and you are not the first one to ask it. The others
— the majority of our kind who are quite content with our lot — they, too, wonder at how we live. But
you see, just because we've been... dealt a certain hand... it doesn't mean that we can't choose to rise
above — to conquer the boundaries of a destiny that none of us wanted. To try to retain whatever
essential humanity we can."
I lay unmoving, locked in awed silence.
"Did you fall asleep?" he whispered after a few minutes.
"No."
"Is that all you were curious about?"
I rolled my eyes. "Not quite."
"What else do you want to know?"
"Why can you read minds — why only you? And Alice, seeing the future... why does that happen?"
I felt him shrug in the darkness. "We don't really know. Carlisle has a theory... he believes that we all
bring something of our strongest human traits with us into the next life, where they are intensified — like
our minds, and our senses. He thinks that I must have already been very sensitive to the thoughts of those
around me. And that Alice had some precognition, wherever she was."
"What did he bring into the next life, and the others?"
"Carlisle brought his compassion. Esme brought her ability to love passionately. Emmett brought his
strength, Rosalie her... tenacity. Or you could call it pigheadedness." he chuckled. "Jasper is very
interesting. He was quite charismatic in his first life, able to influence those around him to see things his
way. Now he is able to manipulate the emotions of those around him — calm down a room of angry
people, for example, or excite a lethargic crowd, conversely. It's a very subtle gift."
I considered the impossibilities he described, trying to take it in. He waited patiently while I thought.
"So where did it all start? I mean, Carlisle changed you, and then someone must have changed him, and
so on..."
"Well, where did you come from? Evolution? Creation? Couldn't we have evolved in the same way as
other species, predator and prey? Or, if you don't believe that all this world could have just happened on
its own, which is hard for me to accept myself, is it so hard to believe that the same force that created the
delicate angelfish with the shark, the baby seal and the killer whale, could create both our kinds
together?"
"Let me get this straight — I'm the baby seal, right?"
"Right." He laughed, and something touched my hair — his lips?
I wanted to turn toward him, to see if it was really his lips against my hair. But I had to be good; I didn't
want to make this any harder for him than it already was.
"Are you ready to sleep?" he asked, interrupting the short silence. "Or do you have any more questions?"
"Only a million or two.""We have tomorrow, and the next day, and the next..." he reminded me. I smiled, euphoric at the
thought.
"Are you sure you won't vanish in the morning?" I wanted this to be certain. "You are mythical, after all."
"I won't leave you." His voice had the seal of a promise in it.
"One more, then, tonight..." And I blushed. The darkness was no help — I'm sure he could feel the
sudden warmth under my skin.
"What is it?"
"No, forget it. I changed my mind."
"Bella, you can ask me anything."
I didn't answer, and he groaned.
"I keep thinking it will get less frustrating, not hearing your thoughts. But it just gets worse and worse."
"I'm glad you can't read my thoughts. It's bad enough that you eavesdrop on my sleep-talking."
"Please?" His voice was so persuasive, so impossible to resist.
I shook my head.
"If you don't tell me, I'll just assume it's something much worse than it is," he threatened darkly. "Please?"
Again, that pleading voice.
"Well," I began, glad that he couldn't see my face.
"Yes?"
"You said that Rosalie and Emmett will get married soon... Is that... marriage... the same as it is for
humans?"
He laughed in earnest now, understanding. "Is that what you're getting at?"
I fidgeted, unable to answer.
"Yes, I suppose it is much the same," he said. "I told you, most of those human desires are there, just
hidden behind more powerful desires."
"Oh," was all I could say.
"Was there a purpose behind your curiosity?"
"Well, I did wonder... about you and me... someday..."
He was instantly serious, I could tell by the sudden stillness of his body. I froze, too, reacting
automatically.
"I don't think that... that... would be possible for us."
"Because it would be too hard for you, if I were that... close?""That's certainly a problem. But that's not what I was thinking of. It's just that you are so soft, so fragile. I
have to mind my actions every moment that we're together so that I don't hurt you. I could kill you quite
easily, Bella, simply by accident." His voice had become just a soft murmur. He moved his icy palm to
rest it against my cheek. "If I was too hasty... if for one second I wasn't paying enough attention, I could
reach out, meaning to touch your face, and crush your skull by mistake. You don't realize how incredibly
breakable you are. I can never, never afford to lose any kind of control when I'm with you."
He waited for me to respond, growing anxious when I didn't. "Are you scared?" he asked.
I waited for a minute to answer, so the words would be true. "No. I'm fine."
He seemed to deliberate for a moment. "I'm curious now, though," he said, his voice light again. "Have
you ever... ?" He trailed off suggestively.
"Of course not." I flushed. "I told you I've never felt like this about anyone before, not even close."
"I know. It's just that I know other people's thoughts. I know love and lust don't always keep the same
company."
"They do for me. Now, anyway, that they exist for me at all," I sighed.
"That's nice. We have that one thing in common, at least." He sounded satisfied.
"Your human instincts..." I began. He waited. "Well, do you find me attractive, in that way, at all?"
He laughed and lightly rumpled my nearly dry hair.
"I may not be a human, but I am a man," he assured me.
I yawned involuntarily.
"I've answered your questions, now you should sleep," he insisted.
"I'm not sure if I can."
"Do you want me to leave?"
"No!" I said too loudly.
He laughed, and then began to hum that same, unfamiliar lullaby; the voice of an archangel, soft in my ear.
More tired than I realized, exhausted from the long day of mental and emotional stress like I'd never felt
before, I drifted to sleep in his cold arms.
15. THE CULLENS
The muted light of yet another cloudy day eventually woke me. I lay with my arm across my eyes, groggy
and dazed. Something, a dream trying to be remembered, struggled to break into my consciousness. I
moaned and rolled on my side, hoping more sleep would come. And then the previous day flooded back
into my awareness.
"Oh!" I sat up so fast it made my head spin."Your hair looks like a haystack... but I like it." His unruffled voice came from the rocking chair in the
corner.
"Edward! You stayed!" I rejoiced, and thoughtlessly threw myself across the room and into his lap. In the
instant that my thoughts caught up with my actions, I froze, shocked by my own uncontrolled enthusiasm.
I stared up at him, afraid that I had crossed the wrong line.
But he laughed.
"Of course," he answered, startled, but seeming pleased by my reaction. His hands rubbed my back.
I laid my head cautiously against his shoulder, breathing in the smell of his skin.
"I was sure it was a dream."
"You're not that creative," he scoffed.
"Charlie!" I remembered, thoughtlessly jumping up again and heading to the door.
"He left an hour ago — after reattaching your battery cables, I might add. I have to admit I was
disappointed. Is that really all it would take to stop you, if you were determined to go?"
I deliberated where I stood, wanting to return to him badly, but afraid I might have morning breath.
"You're not usually this confused in the morning," he noted. He held his arms open for me to return. A
nearly irresistible invitation.
"I need another human minute," I admitted.
"I'll wait."
I skipped to the bathroom, my emotions unrecognizable. I didn't know myself, inside or out. The face in
the mirror was practically a stranger — eyes too bright, hectic spots of red across my cheekbones. After
I brushed my teeth, I worked to straighten out the tangled chaos that was my hair. I splashed my face
with cold water, and tried to breathe normally, with no noticeable success. I half-ran back to my room.
It seemed like a miracle that he was there, his arms still waiting for me. He reached out to me, and my
heart thumped unsteadily.
"Welcome back," he murmured, taking me into his arms.
He rocked me for a while in silence, until I noticed that his clothes were changed, his hair smooth.
"You left?" I accused, touching the collar of his fresh shirt.
"I could hardly leave in the clothes I came in — what would the neighbors think?"
I pouted.
"You were very deeply asleep; I didn't miss anything." His eyes gleamed. "The talking came earlier."
I groaned. "What did you hear?"
His gold eyes grew very soft. "You said you loved me."
"You knew that already," I reminded him, ducking my head."It was nice to hear, just the same."
I hid my face against his shoulder.
"I love you," I whispered.
"You are my life now," he answered simply.
There was nothing more to say for the moment. He rocked us back and forth as the room grew lighter.
"Breakfast time," he said eventually, casually — to prove, I'm sure, that he remembered all my human
frailties.
So I clutched my throat with both hands and stared at him with wide eyes. Shock crossed his face.
"Kidding!" I snickered. "And you said I couldn't act!"
He frowned in disgust. "That wasn't funny."
"It was very funny, and you know it." But I examined his gold eyes carefully, to make sure that I was
forgiven. Apparently, I was.
"Shall I rephrase?" he asked. "Breakfast time for the human."
"Oh, okay."
He threw me over his stone shoulder, gently, but with a swiftness that left me breathless. I protested as he
carried me easily down the stairs, but he ignored me. He sat me right side up on a chair.
The kitchen was bright, happy, seeming to absorb my mood.
"What's for breakfast?" I asked pleasantly.
That threw him for a minute.
"Er, I'm not sure. What would you like?" His marble brow puckered.
I grinned, hopping up.
"That's all right, I fend for myself pretty well. Watch me hunt."
I found a bowl and a box of cereal. I could feel his eyes on me as I poured the milk and grabbed a
spoon. I sat my food on the table, and then paused.
"Can I get you anything?" I asked, not wanting to be rude.
He rolled his eyes. "Just eat, Bella."
I sat at the table, watching him as I took a bite. He was gazing at me, studying my every movement. It
made me self-conscious. I cleared my mouth to speak, to distract him.
"What's on the agenda for today?" I asked.
"Hmmm..." I watched him frame his answer carefully. "What would you say to meeting my family?"
I gulped."Are you afraid now?" He sounded hopeful.
"Yes," I admitted; how could I deny it — he could see my eyes.
"Don't worry." He smirked. "I'll protect you."
"I'm not afraid of them," I explained. "I'm afraid they won't... like me. Won't they be, well, surprised that
you would bring someone... like me... home to meet them? Do they know that I know about them?"
"Oh, they already know everything. They'd taken bets yesterday, you know" — he smiled, but his voice
was harsh — "on whether I'd bring you back, though why anyone would bet against Alice, I can't
imagine. At any rate, we don't have secrets in the family. It's not really feasible, what with my mind
reading and Alice seeing the future and all that."
"And Jasper making you feel all warm and fuzzy about spilling your guts, don't forget that."
"You paid attention," he smiled approvingly.
"I've been known to do that every now and then." I grimaced. "So did Alice see me coming?"
His reaction was strange. "Something like that," he said uncomfortably, turning away so I couldn't see his
eyes. I stared at him curiously.
"Is that any good?" he asked, turning back to me abruptly and eyeing my breakfast with a teasing look on
his face. "Honestly, it doesn't look very appetizing."
"Well, it's no irritable grizzly..." I murmured, ignoring him when he glowered. I was still wondering why
he responded that way when I mentioned Alice. I hurried through my cereal, speculating.
He stood in the middle of the kitchen, the statue of Adonis again, staring abstractedly out the back
windows.
Then his eyes were back on me, and he smiled his heartbreaking smile.
"And you should introduce me to your father, too, I think."
"He already knows you," I reminded him.
"As your boyfriend, I mean."
I stared at him with suspicion. "Why?"
"Isn't that customary?" he asked innocently.
"I don't know," I admitted. My dating history gave me few reference points to work with. Not that any
normal rules of dating applied here. "That's not necessary, you know. I don't expect you to... I mean,
you don't have to pretend for me."
His smile was patient. "I'm not pretending."
I pushed the remains of my cereal around the edges of the bowl, biting my lip.
"Are you going to tell Charlie I'm your boyfriend or not?" he demanded.
"Is that what you are?" I suppressed my internal cringing at the thought of Edward and Charlie and the
word boy friend all in the same room at the same time."It's a loose interpretation of the word 'boy,' I'll admit."
"I was under the impression that you were something more, actually," I confessed, looking at the table.
"Well, I don't know if we need to give him all the gory details." He reached across the table to lift my chin
with a cold, gentle finger. "But he will need some explanation for why I'm around here so much. I don't
want Chief Swan getting a restraining order put on me."
"Will you be?" I asked, suddenly anxious. "Will you really be here?"
"As long as you want me," he assured me.
"I'll always want you," I warned him. "Forever."
He walked slowly around the table, and, pausing a few feet away, he reached out to touch his fingertips
to my cheek. His expression was unfathomable.
"Does that make you sad?" I asked.
He didn't answer. He stared into my eyes for an immeasurable period of time.
"Are you finished?" he finally asked.
I jumped up. "Yes."
"Get dressed — I'll wait here."
It was hard to decide what to wear. I doubted there were any etiquette books detailing how to dress
when your vampire sweetheart takes you home to meet his vampire family. It was a relief to think the
word to myself. I knew I shied away from it intentionally.
I ended up in my only skirt — long, khaki-colored, still casual. I put on the dark blue blouse he'd once
complimented. A quick glance in the mirror told me my hair was entirely impossible, so I pulled it back
into a pony tail.
"Okay." I bounced down the stairs. "I'm decent."
He was waiting at the foot of the stairs, closer than I'd thought, and I bounded right into him. He steadied
me, holding me a careful distance away for a few seconds before suddenly pulling me closer.
"Wrong again," he murmured in my ear. "You are utterly indecent — no one should look so tempting, it's
not fair."
"Tempting how?" I asked. "I can change..."
He sighed, shaking his head. "You are so absurd." He pressed his cool lips delicately to my forehead,
and the room spun. The smell of his breath made it impossible to think.
"Shall I explain how you are tempting me?" he said. It was clearly a rhetorical question. His fingers traced
slowly down my spine, his breath coming more quickly against my skin. My hands were limp on his
chest, and I felt lightheaded again. He tilted his head slowly and touched his cool lips to mine for the
second time, very carefully, parting them slightly.
And then I collapsed."Bella?" His voice was alarmed as he caught me and held me up.
"You... made... me... faint," I accused him dizzily.
"What am I going to do with you?" he groaned in exasperation. "Yesterday I kiss you, and you attack
me! Today you pass out on me!"
I laughed weakly, letting his arms support me while my head spun.
"So much for being good at everything," he sighed.
"That's the problem." I was still dizzy. "You're too good. Far, far too good."
"Do you feel sick?" he asked; he'd seen me like this before.
"No — that wasn't the same kind of fainting at all. I don't know what happened." I shook my head
apologeticallv, "I think I forgot to breathe."
"I can't take you anywhere like this."
"I'm fine," I insisted. "Your family is going to think I'm insane anyway, what's the difference?"
He measured my expression for a moment. "I'm very partial to that color with your skin," he offered
unexpectedly. I flushed with pleasure, and looked away.
"Look, I'm trying really hard not to think about what I'm about to do, so can we go already?" I asked.
"And you're worried, not because you're headed to meet a houseful of vampires, but because you think
those vampires won't approve of you, correct?"
"That's right," I answered immediately, hiding my surprise at his casual use of the word.
He shook his head. "You're incredible."
I realized, as he drove my truck out of the main part of town, that I had no idea where he lived. We
passed over the bridge at the Calawah River, the road winding northward, the houses flashing past us
growing farther apart, getting bigger. And then we were past the other houses altogether, driving through
misty forest. I was trying to decide whether to ask or be patient, when he turned abruptly onto an
unpaved road. It was unmarked, barely visible among the ferns. The forest encroached on both sides,
leaving the road ahead only discernible for a few meters as it twisted, serpentlike, around the ancient
trees.
And then, after a few miles, there was some thinning of the woods, and we were suddenly in a small
meadow, or was it actually a lawn? The gloom of the forest didn't relent, though, for there were six
primordial cedars that shaded an entire acre with their vast sweep of branches. The trees held their
protecting shadow right up to the walls of the house that rose among them, making obsolete the deep
porch that wrapped around the first story.
I don't know what I had expected, but it definitely wasn't this. The house was timeless, graceful, and
probably a hundred years old. It was painted a soft, faded white, three stories tall, rectangular and well
proportioned. The windows and doors were either part of the original structure or a perfect restoration.
My truck was the only car in sight. I could hear the river close by, hidden in the obscurity of the forest.
"Wow.""You like it?" He smiled.
"It... has a certain charm."
He pulled the end of my ponytail and chuckled.
"Ready?" he asked, opening my door.
"Not even a little bit — let's go." I tried to laugh, but it seemed to get stuck in my throat. I smoothed my
hair nervously.
"You look lovely." He took my hand easily, without thinking about it.
We walked through the deep shade up to the porch. I knew he could feel my tension; his thumb rubbed
soothing circles into the back of my hand.
He opened the door for me.
The inside was even more surprising, less predictable, than the exterior. It was very bright, very open,
and very large. This must have originally been several rooms, but the walls had been removed from most
of the first floor to create one wide space. The back, south-facing wall had been entirely replaced with
glass, and, beyond the shade of the cedars, the lawn stretched bare to the wide river. A massive curving
staircase dominated the west side of the room. The walls, the high-beamed ceiling, the wooden floors,
and the thick carpets were all varying shades of white.
Waiting to greet us, standing just to the left of the door, on a raised portion of the floor by a spectacular
grand piano, were Edward's parents.
I'd seen Dr. Cullen before, of course, yet I couldn't help but be struck again by his youth, his outrageous
perfection. At his side was Esme, I assumed, the only one of the family I'd never seen before. She had
the same pale, beautiful features as the rest of them. Something about her heart-shaped face, her billows
of soft, caramel-colored hair, reminded me of the ingénues of the silent-movie era. She was small,
slender, yet less angular, more rounded than the others. They were both dressed casually, in light colors
that matched the inside of the house. They smiled in welcome, but made no move to approach us. Trying
not to frighten me, I guessed.
"Carlisle, Esme," Edward's voice broke the short silence, "this is Bella."
"You're very welcome, Bella." Carlisle's step was measured, careful as he approached me. He raised his
hand tentatively, and I stepped forward to shake hands with him.
"It's nice to see you again, Dr. Cullen."
"Please, call me Carlisle."
"Carlisle." I grinned at him, my sudden confidence surprising me. I could feel Edward's relief at my side.
Esme smiled and stepped forward as well, reaching for my hand. Her cold, stone grasp was just as I
expected.
"It's very nice to know you," she said sincerely.
"Thank you. I'm glad to meet you, too." And I was. It was like meeting a fairy tale — Snow White, in the
flesh."Where are Alice and Jasper?" Edward asked, but no one answered, as they had just appeared at the
top of the wide staircase.
"Hey, Edward!" Alice called enthusiastically. She ran down the stairs, a streak of black hair and white
skin, coming to a sudden and graceful stop in front of me. Carlisle and Esme shot warning glances at her,
but I liked it. It was natural — for her, anyway.
"Hi, Bella!" Alice said, and she bounced forward to kiss my cheek. If Carlisle and Esme had looked
cautious before, they now looked staggered. There was shock in my eyes, too, but I was also very
pleased that she seemed to approve of me so entirely. I was startled to feel Edward stiffen at my side. I
glanced at his face, but his expression was unreadable.
"You do smell nice, I never noticed before," she commented, to my extreme embarrassment.
No one else seemed to know quite what to say, and then Jasper was there — tall and leonine. A feeling
of ease spread through me, and I was suddenly comfortable despite where I was. Edward stared at
Jasper, raising one eyebrow, and I remembered what Jasper could do.
"Hello, Bella," Jasper said. He kept his distance, not offering to shake my hand. But it was impossible to
feel awkward near him.
"Hello, Jasper." I smiled at him shyly, and then at the others. "It's nice to meet you all — you have a very
beautiful home," I added conventionally.
"Thank you," Esme said. "We're so glad that you came." She spoke with feeling, and I realized that she
thought I was brave.
I also realized that Rosalie and Emmett were nowhere to be seen, and I remembered Edward's
too-innocent denial when I'd asked him if the others didn't like me.
Carlisle's expression distracted me from this train of thought; he was gazing meaningfully at Edward with
an intense expression. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Edward nod once.
I looked away, trying to be polite. My eyes wandered again to the beautiful instrument on the platform by
the door. I suddenly remembered my childhood fantasy that, should I ever win a lottery, I would buy a
grand piano for my mother. She wasn't really good — she only played for herself on our secondhand
upright — but I loved to watch her play. She was happy, absorbed — she seemed like a new,
mysterious being to me then, someone outside the "mom" persona I took for granted. She'd put me
through lessons, of course, but like most kids, I whined until she let me quit.
Esme noticed my preoccupation.
"Do you play?" she asked, inclining her head toward the piano.
I shook my head. "Not at all. But it's so beautiful. Is it yours?"
"No," she laughed. "Edward didn't tell you he was musical?"
"No." I glared at his suddenly innocent expression with narrowed eyes. "I should have known, I guess."
Esme raised her delicate eyebrows in confusion.
"Edward can do everything, right?" I explained.
Jasper snickered and Esme gave Edward a reproving look."I hope you haven't been showing off— it's rude," she scolded.
"Just a bit," he laughed freely. Her face softened at the sound, and they shared a brief look that I didn't
understand, though Esme's face seemed almost smug.
"He's been too modest, actually," I corrected.
"Well, play for her," Esme encouraged.
"You just said showing off was rude," he objected.
"There are exceptions to every rule," she replied.
"I'd like to hear you play," I volunteered.
"It's settled then." Esme pushed him toward the piano. He pulled me along, sitting me on the bench beside
him.
He gave me a long, exasperated look before he turned to the keys.
And then his fingers flowed swiftly across the ivory, and the room was filled with a composition so
complex, so luxuriant, it was impossible to believe only one set of hands played. I felt my chin drop, my
mouth open in astonishment, and heard low chuckles behind me at my reaction.
Edward looked at me casually, the music still surging around us without a break, and winked. "Do you
like it?"
"You wrote this?" I gasped, understanding.
He nodded. "It's Esme's favorite."
I closed my eyes, shaking my head.
"What's wrong?"
"I'm feeling extremely insignificant."
The music slowed, transforming into something softer, and to my surprise I detected the melody of his
lullaby weaving through the profusion of notes.
"You inspired this one," he said softly. The music grew unbearably sweet.
I couldn't speak.
"They like you, you know," he said conversationally. "Esme especially."
I glanced behind me, but the huge room was empty now.
"Where did they go?"
"Very subtly giving us some privacy, I suppose."
I sighed. "They like me. But Rosalie and Emmett..." I trailed off, not sure how to express my doubts.
He frowned. "Don't worry about Rosalie," he said, his eyes wide and persuasive. "She'll come around."I pursed my lips skeptically. "Emmett?"
"Well, he thinks I'm a lunatic, it's true, but he doesn't have a problem with you. He's trying to reason with
Rosalie."
"What is it that upsets her?" I wasn't sure if I wanted to know the answer.
He sighed deeply. "Rosalie struggles the most with... with what we are. It's hard for her to have someone
on the outside know the truth. And she's a little jealous."
"Rosalie is jealous of me?" I asked incredulously. I tried to imagine a universe in which someone as
breathtaking as Rosalie would have any possible reason to feel jealous of someone like me.
"You're human." He shrugged. "She wishes that she were, too."
"Oh," I muttered, still stunned. "Even Jasper, though..."
"That's really my fault," he said. "I told you he was the most recent to try our way of life. I warned him to
keep his distance."
I thought about the reason for that, and shuddered.
"Esme and Carlisle... ?" I continued quickly, to keep him from noticing.
"Are happy to see me happy. Actually, Esme wouldn't care if you had a third eye and webbed feet. All
this time she's been worried about me, afraid that there was something missing from my essential makeup,
that I was too young when Carlisle changed me... She's ecstatic. Every time I touch you, she just about
chokes with satisfaction."
"Alice seems very... enthusiastic."
"Alice has her own way of looking at things," he said through tight lips.
"And you're not going to explain that, are you?"
A moment of wordless communication passed between us. He realized that I knew he was keeping
something from me. I realized that he wasn't going to give anything away. Not now.
"So what was Carlisle telling you before?"
His eyebrows pulled together. "You noticed that, did you?"
I shrugged. "Of course."
He looked at me thoughtfully for a few seconds before answering. "He wanted to tell me some news —
he didn't know if it was something I would share with you."
"Will you?"
"I have to, because I'm going to be a little... overbearingly protective over the next few days — or
weeks — and I wouldn't want you to think I'm naturally a tyrant."
"What's wrong?"
"Nothing's wrong, exactly. Alice just sees some visitors coming soon. They know we're here, and they're
curious.""Visitors?"
"Yes... well, they aren't like us, of course — in their hunting habits, I mean. They probably won't come
into town at all, but I'm certainly not going to let you out of my sight till they're gone."
I shivered.
"Finally, a rational response!" he murmured. "I was beginning to think you had no sense of
self-preservation at all."
I let that one pass, looking away, my eyes wandering again around the spacious room.
He followed my gaze. "Not what you expected, is it?" he asked, his voice smug.
"No," I admitted.
"No coffins, no piled skulls in the corners; I don't even think we have cobwebs... what a disappointment
this must be for you," he continued slyly.
I ignored his teasing. "It's so light... so open."
He was more serious when he answered. "It's the one place we never have to hide."
The song he was still playing, my song, drifted to an end, the final chords shifting to a more melancholy
key. The last note hovered poignantly in the silence.
"Thank you," I murmured. I realized there were tears in my eyes. I dabbed at them, embarrassed.
He touched the corner of my eye, trapping one I missed. He lifted his finger, examining the drop of
moisture broodingly. Then, so quickly I couldn't be positive that he really did, he put his finger to his
mouth to taste it.
I looked at him questioningly, and he gazed back for a long moment before he finally smiled.
"Do you want to see the rest of the house?"
"No coffins?" I verified, the sarcasm in my voice not entirely masking the slight but genuine anxiety I felt.
He laughed, taking my hand, leading me away from the piano.
"No coffins," he promised.
We walked up the massive staircase, my hand trailing along the satin-smooth rail. The long hall at the top
of the stairs was paneled with a honey-colored wood, the same as the floorboards.
"Rosalie and Emmett's room... Carlisle's office... Alice's room..." He gestured as he led me past the
doors.
He would have continued, but I stopped dead at the end of the hall, staring incredulously at the ornament
hanging on the wall above my head. Edward chuckled at my bewildered expression.
"You can laugh," he said. "It is sort of ironic."
I didn't laugh. My hand raised automatically, one finger extended as if to touch the large wooden cross,
its dark patina contrasting with the lighter tone of the wall. I didn't touch it, though I was curious if the
aged wood would feel as silky as it looked."It must be very old," I guessed.
He shrugged. "Early sixteen-thirties, more or less."
I looked away from the cross to stare at him.
"Why do you keep this here?" I wondered.
"Nostalgia. It belonged to Carlisle's father."
"He collected antiques?" I suggested doubtfully.
"No. He carved this himself. It hung on the wall above the pulpit in the vicarage where he preached."
I wasn't sure if my face betrayed my shock, but I returned to gazing at the simple, ancient cross, just in
case. I quickly did the mental math; the cross was over three hundred and seventy years old. The silence
stretched on as I struggled to wrap my mind around the concept of so many years.
"Are you all right?" He sounded worried.
"How old is Carlisle?" I asked quietly, ignoring his question, still staring up.
"He just celebrated his three hundred and sixty-second birthday," Edward said. I looked back at him, a
million questions in my eyes.
He watched me carefully as he spoke.
"Carlisle was born in London, in the sixteen-forties, he believes. Time wasn't marked as accurately then,
for the common people anyway. It was just before Cromwell's rule, though."
I kept my face composed, aware of his scrutiny as I listened. It was easier if I didn't try to believe.
"He was the only son of an Anglican pastor. His mother died giving birth to him. His father was an
intolerant man. As the Protestants came into power, he was enthusiastic in his persecution of Roman
Catholics and other religions. He also believed very strongly in the reality of evil. He led hunts for
witches, werewolves... and vampires." I grew very still at the word. I'm sure he noticed, but he went on
without pausing.
"They burned a lot of innocent people — of course the real creatures that he sought were not so easy to
catch.
"When the pastor grew old, he placed his obedient son in charge of the raids. At first Carlisle was a
disappointment; he was not quick to accuse, to see demons where they did not exist. But he was
persistent, and more clever than his father. He actually discovered a coven of true vampires that lived
hidden in the sewers of the city, only coming out by night to hunt. In those days, when monsters were not
just myths and legends, that was the way many lived.
"The people gathered their pitchforks and torches, of course" — his brief laugh was darker now — "and
waited where Carlisle had seen the monsters exit into the street. Eventually one emerged."
His voice was very quiet; I strained to catch the words.
"He must have been ancient, and weak with hunger. Carlisle heard him call out in Latin to the others
when he caught the scent of the mob. He ran through the streets, and Carlisle — he was twenty-three
and very fast — was in the lead of the pursuit. The creature could have easily outrun them, but Carlislethinks he was too hungry, so he turned and attacked. He fell on Carlisle first, but the others were close
behind, and he turned to defend himself. He killed two men, and made off with a third, leaving Carlisle
bleeding in the street."
He paused. I could sense he was editing something, keeping something from me.
"Carlisle knew what his father would do. The bodies would be burned — anything infected by the
monster must be destroyed. Carlisle acted instinctively to save his own life. He crawled away from the
alley while the mob followed the fiend and his victim. He hid in a cellar, buried himself in rotting potatoes
for three days. It's a miracle he was able to keep silent, to stay undiscovered.
"It was over then, and he realized what he had become."
I'm not sure what my face was revealing, but he suddenly broke off.
"How are you feeling?" he asked.
"I'm fine," I assured him. And, though I bit my lip in hesitation, he must have seen the curiosity burning in
my eyes.
He smiled. "I expect you have a few more questions for me."
"A few."
His smile widened over his brilliant teeth. He started back down the hall, pulling me along by the hand.
"Come on, then," he encouraged. "I'll show you."
16. CARLISLE
He led me back to the room that he'd pointed out as Carlisle's office. He paused outside the door for an
instant.
"Come in," Carlisle's voice invited.
Edward opened the door to a high-ceilinged room with tall, west-facing windows. The walls were
paneled again, in a darker wood — where they were visible. Most of the wall space was taken up by
towering bookshelves that reached high above my head and held more books than I'd ever seen outside
a library.
Carlisle sat behind a huge mahogany desk in a leather chair. He was just placing a bookmark in the pages
of the thick volume he held. The room was how I'd always imagined a college dean's would look — only
Carlisle looked too young to fit the part.
"What can I do for you?" he asked us pleasantly, rising from his seat.
"I wanted to show Bella some of our history," Edward said. "Well, your history, actually."
"We didn't mean to disturb you," I apologized.
"Not at all. Where are you going to start?"
"The Waggoner," Edward replied, placing one hand lightly on my shoulder and spinning me around tolook back toward the door we'd just come through. Every time he touched me, in even the most casual
way, my heart had an audible reaction. It was more embarrassing with Carlisle there.
The wall we faced now was different from the others. Instead of bookshelves, this wall was crowded
with framed pictures of all sizes, some in vibrant colors, others dull monochromes. I searched for some
logic, some binding motif the collection had in common, but I found nothing in my hasty examination.
Edward pulled me toward the far left side, standing me in front of a small square oil painting in a plain
wooden frame. This one did not stand out among the bigger and brighter pieces; painted in varying tones
of sepia, it depicted a miniature city full of steeply slanted roofs, with thin spires atop a few scattered
towers. A wide river filled the foreground, crossed by a bridge covered with structures that looked like
tiny cathedrals.
"London in the sixteen-fifties," Edward said.
"The London of my youth," Carlisle added, from a few feet behind us. I flinched; I hadn't heard him
approach. Edward squeezed my hand.
"Will you tell the story?" Edward asked. I twisted a little to see Carlisle's reaction.
He met my glance and smiled. "I would," he replied. "But I'm actually running a bit late. The hospital
called this morning — Dr. Snow is taking a sick day. Besides, you know the stories as well as I do," he
added, grinning at Edward now.
It was a strange combination to absorb — the everyday concerns of the town doctor stuck in the middle
of a discussion of his early days in seventeenth-century London.
It was also unsettling to know that he spoke aloud only for my benefit.
After another warm smile for me, Carlisle left the room.
I stared at the little picture of Carlisle's hometown for a long moment.
"What happened then?" I finally asked, staring up at Edward, who was watching me. "When he realized
what had happened to him?"
He glanced back to the paintings, and I looked to see which image caught his interest now. It was a
larger landscape in dull fall colors — an empty, shadowed meadow in a forest, with a craggy peak in the
distance.
"When he knew what he had become," Edward said quietly, "he rebelled against it. He tried to destroy
himself. But that's not easily done."
"How?" I didn't mean to say it aloud, but the word broke through my shock.
"He jumped from great heights," Edward told me, his voice impassive. "He tried to drown himself in the
ocean... but he was young to the new life, and very strong. It is amazing that he was able to resist...
feeding... while he was still so new. The instinct is more powerful then, it takes over everything. But he
was so repelled by himself that he had the strength to try to kill himself with starvation."
"Is that possible?" My voice was faint.
"No, there are very few ways we can be killed."
I opened my mouth to ask, but he spoke before I could."So he grew very hungry, and eventually weak. He strayed as far as he could from the human populace,
recognizing that his willpower was weakening, too. For months he wandered by night, seeking the
loneliest places, loathing himself.
"One night, a herd of deer passed his hiding place. He was so wild with thirst that he attacked without a
thought. His strength returned and he realized there was an alternative to being the vile monster he feared.
Had he not eaten venison in his former life? Over the next months his new philosophy was born. He
could exist without being a demon. He found himself again.
"He began to make better use of his time. He'd always been intelligent, eager to learn. Now he had
unlimited time before him. He studied by night, planned by day. He swam to France and —"
"He swam to France?"
"People swim the Channel all the time, Bella," he reminded me patiently.
"That's true, I guess. It just sounded funny in that context. Go on."
"Swimming is easy for us —"
"Everything is easy for you," I griped.
He waited, his expression amused.
"I won't interrupt again, I promise."
He chuckled darkly, and finished his sentence. "Because, technically, we don't need to breathe."
"You —"
"No, no, you promised." He laughed, putting his cold finger lightly to my lips. "Do you want to hear the
story or not?"
"You can't spring something like that on me, and then expect me not to say anything," I mumbled against
his finger.
He lifted his hand, moving it to rest against my neck. The speed of my heart reacted to that, but I
persisted.
"You don't have to breathe?" I demanded.
"No, it's not necessary. Just a habit." He shrugged.
"How long can you go... without breathing?"
"Indefinitely, I suppose; I don't know. It gets a bit uncomfortable — being without a sense of smell."
"A bit uncomfortable," I echoed.
I wasn't paying attention to my own expression, but something in it made him grow somber. His hand
dropped to his side and he stood very still, his eyes intent on my face. The silence lengthened. His
features were immobile as stone.
"What is it?" I whispered, touching his frozen face.
His face softened under my hand, and he sighed. "I keep waiting for it to happen.""For what to happen?"
"I know that at some point, something I tell you or something you see is going to be too much. And then
you'll run away from me, screaming as you go." He smiled half a smile, but his eyes were serious. "I won't
stop you. I want this to happen, because I want you to be safe. And yet, I want to be with you. The two
desires are impossible to reconcile..." He trailed off, staring at my face. Waiting.
"I'm not running anywhere," I promised.
"We'll see," he said, smiling again.
I frowned at him. "So, go on — Carlisle was swimming to France."
He paused, getting back into his story. Reflexively, his eyes flickered to another picture — the most
colorful of them all, the most ornately framed, and the largest; it was twice as wide as the door it hung
next to. The canvas overflowed with bright figures in swirling robes, writhing around long pillars and off
marbled balconies. I couldn't tell if it represented Greek mythology, or if the characters floating in the
clouds above were meant to be biblical.
"Carlisle swam to France, and continued on through Europe, to the universities there. By night he studied
music, science, medicine — and found his calling, his penance, in that, in saving human lives." His
expression became awed, almost reverent. "I can't adequately describe the struggle; it took Carlisle two
centuries of torturous effort to perfect his self-control. Now he is all but immune to the scent of human
blood, and he is able to do the work he loves without agony. He finds a great deal of peace there, at the
hospital..." Edward stared off into space for a long moment. Suddenly he seemed to recall his purpose.
He tapped his finger against the huge painting in front of us.
"He was studying in Italy when he discovered the others there. They were much more civilized and
educated than the wraiths of the London sewers."
He touched a comparatively sedate quartet of figures painted on the highest balcony, looking down
calmly on the mayhem below them. I examined the grouping carefully and realized, with a startled laugh,
that I recognized the golden-haired man.
"Solimena was greatly inspired by Carlisle's friends. He often painted them as gods," Edward chuckled.
"Aro, Marcus, Caius," he said, indicating the other three, two black-haired, one snowy-white. "Nighttime
patrons of the arts."
"What happened to them?" I wondered aloud, my fingertip hovering a centimeter from the figures on the
canvas.
"They're still there." He shrugged. "As they have been for who knows how many millennia. Carlisle
stayed with them only for a short time, just a few decades. He greatly admired their civility, their
refinement, but they persisted in trying to cure his aversion to 'his natural food source,' as they called it.
They tried to persuade him, and he tried to persuade them, to no avail. At that point, Carlisle decided to
try the New World. He dreamed of finding others like himself. He was very lonely, you see.
"He didn't find anyone for a long time. But, as monsters became the stuff of fairy tales, he found he could
interact with unsuspecting humans as if he were one of them. He began practicing medicine. But the
companionship he craved evaded him; he couldn't risk familiarity.
"When the influenza epidemic hit, he was working nights in a hospital in Chicago. He'd been turning over
an idea in his mind for several years, and he had almost decided to act — since he couldn't find acompanion, he would create one. He wasn't absolutely sure how his own transformation had occurred,
so he was hesitant. And he was loath to steal anyone's life the way his had been stolen. It was in that
frame of mind that he found me. There was no hope for me; I was left in a ward with the dying. He had
nursed my parents, and knew I was alone. He decided to try..."
His voice, nearly a whisper now, trailed off. He stared unseeingly through the west windows. I wondered
which images filled his mind now, Carlisle's memories or his own. I waited quietly.
When he turned back to me, a gentle angel's smile lit his expression.
"And so we've come full circle," he concluded.
"Have you always stayed with Carlisle, then?" I wondered.
"Almost always." He put his hand lightly on my waist and pulled me with him as he walked through the
door. I stared back at the wall of pictures, wondering if I would ever get to hear the other stories.
Edward didn't say any more as we walked down the hall, so I asked, "Almost?"
He sighed, seeming reluctant to answer. "Well, I had a typical bout of rebellious adolescence — about
ten years after I was... born... created, whatever you want to call it. I wasn't sold on his life of
abstinence, and I resented him for curbing my appetite. So I went off on my own for a time."
"Really?" I was intrigued, rather than frightened, as I perhaps should have been.
He could tell. I vaguely realized that we were headed up the next flight of stairs, but I wasn't paying much
attention to my surroundings.
"That doesn't repulse you?"
"No."
"Why not?"
"I guess... it sounds reasonable."
He barked a laugh, more loudly than before. We were at the top of the stairs now, in another paneled
hallway.
"From the time of my new birth," he murmured, "I had the advantage of knowing what everyone around
me was thinking, both human and non-human alike. That's why it took me ten years to defy Carlisle — I
could read his perfect sincerity, understand exactly why he lived the way he did.
"It took me only a few years to return to Carlisle and recommit to his vision. I thought I would be exempt
from the... depression... that accompanies a conscience. Because I knew the thoughts of my prey, I
could pass over the innocent and pursue only the evil. If I followed a murderer down a dark alley where
he stalked a young girl — if I saved her, then surely I wasn't so terrible."
I shivered, imagining only too clearly what he described — the alley at night, the frightened girl, the dark
man behind her. And Edward, Edward as he hunted, terrible and glorious as a young god, unstoppable.
Would she have been grateful, that girl, or more frightened than before?
"But as time went on, I began to see the monster in my eyes. I couldn't escape the debt of so much
human life taken, no matter how justified. And I went back to Carlisle and Esme. They welcomed me
back like the prodigal. It was more than I deserved."We'd come to a stop in front of the last door in the hall.
"My room," he informed me, opening it and pulling me through.
His room faced south, with a wall-sized window like the great room below. The whole back side of the
house must be glass. His view looked down on the winding Sol Duc River, across the untouched forest
to the Olympic Mountain range. The mountains were much closer than I would have believed.
The western wall was completely covered with shelf after shelf of CDs. His room was better stocked
than a music store. In the corner was a sophisticated-looking sound system, the kind I was afraid to
touch because I'd be sure to break something. There was no bed, only a wide and inviting black leather
sofa. The floor was covered with a thick golden carpet, and the walls were hung with heavy fabric in a
slightly darker shade.
"Good acoustics?" I guessed.
He chuckled and nodded.
He picked up a remote and turned the stereo on. It was quiet, but the soft jazz number sounded like the
band was in the room with us. I went to look at his mind-boggling music collection.
"How do you have these organized?" I asked, unable to find any rhyme or reason to the titles.
He wasn't paying attention.
"Ummm, by year, and then by personal preference within that frame," he said absently.
I turned, and he was looking at me with a peculiar expression in his eyes.
"What?"
"I was prepared to feel... relieved. Having you know about everything, not needing to keep secrets from
you. But I didn't expect to feel more than that. I like it. It makes me... happy." He shrugged, smiling
slightly.
"I'm glad," I said, smiling back. I'd worried that he might regret telling me these things. It was good to
know that wasn't the case.
But then, as his eyes dissected my expression, his smile faded and his forehead creased.
"You're still waiting for the running and the screaming, aren't you?" I guessed.
A faint smile touched his lips, and he nodded.
"I hate to burst your bubble, but you're really not as scary as you think you are. I don't find you scary at
all, actually," I lied casually.
He stopped, raising his eyebrows in blatant disbelief. Then he flashed a wide, wicked smile.
"You really shouldn't have said that," he chuckled.
He growled, a low sound in the back of his throat; his lips curled back over his perfect teeth. His body
shifted suddenly, half-crouched, tensed like a lion about to pounce.
I backed away from him, glaring."You wouldn't."
I didn't see him leap at me — it was much too fast. I only found myself suddenly airborne, and then we
crashed onto the sofa, knocking it into the wall. All the while, his arms formed an iron cage of protection
around me — I was barely jostled. But I still was gasping as I tried to right myself.
He wasn't having that. He curled me into a ball against his chest, holding me more securely than iron
chains. I glared at him in alarm, but he seemed well in control, his jaw relaxed as he grinned, his eyes
bright only with humor.
"You were saying?" he growled playfully.
"That you are a very, very terrifying monster," I said, my sarcasm marred a bit by my breathless voice.
"Much better," he approved.
"Um." I struggled. "Can I get up now?"
He just laughed.
"Can we come in?" a soft voice sounded from the hall.
I struggled to free myself, but Edward merely readjusted me so that I was somewhat more conventionally
seated on his lap. I could see it was Alice, then, and Jasper behind her in the doorway. My cheeks
burned, but Edward seemed at ease.
"Go ahead." Edward was still chuckling quietly.
Alice seemed to find nothing unusual in our embrace; she walked — almost danced, her movements
were so graceful — to the center of the room, where she folded herself sinuously onto the floor. Jasper,
however, paused at the door, his expression a trifle shocked. He stared at Edward's face, and I
wondered if he was tasting the atmosphere with his unusual sensitivity.
"It sounded like you were having Bella for lunch, and we came to see if you would share," Alice
announced.
I stiffened for an instant, until I realized Edward was grinning — whether at her comment or my response,
I couldn't tell.
"Sorry, I don't believe I have enough to spare," he replied, his arms holding me recklessly close.
"Actually," Jasper said, smiling despite himself as he walked into the room, "Alice says there's going to be
a real storm tonight, and Emmett wants to play ball. Are you game?"
The words were all common enough, but the context confused me. I gathered that Alice was a bit more
reliable than the weatherman, though.
Edward's eyes lit up, but he hesitated.
"Of course you should bring Bella," Alice chirped. I thought I saw Jasper throw a quick glance at her.
"Do you want to go?" Edward asked me, excited, his expression vivid.
"Sure." I couldn't disappoint such a face. "Um, where are we going?""We have to wait for thunder to play ball — you'll see why," he promised.
"Will I need an umbrella?"
They all three laughed aloud.
"Will she?" Jasper asked Alice.
"No." She was positive. "The storm will hit over town. It should be dry enough in the clearing."
"Good, then." The enthusiasm in Jasper's voice was catching, naturally. I found myself eager, rather than
scared stiff.
"Let's go see if Carlisle will come." Alice bounded up and to the door in a fashion that would break any
ballerina's heart.
"Like you don't know," Jasper teased, and they were swiftly on their way. Jasper managed to
inconspicuously close the door behind them.
"What will we be playing?" I demanded.
"You will be watching," Edward clarified. "We will be playing baseball."
I rolled my eyes. "Vampires like baseball?"
"It's the American pastime," he said with mock solemnity.
17. THE GAME
It was just beginning to drizzle when Edward turned onto my street. Up until that moment, I'd had no
doubt that he'd be staying with me while I spent a few interim hours in the real world.
And then I saw the black car, a weathered Ford, parked in Charlie's driveway — and heard Edward
mutter something unintelligible in a low, harsh voice.
Leaning away from the rain under the shallow front porch, Jacob Black stood behind his father's
wheelchair. Billy's face was impassive as stone as Edward parked my truck against the curb. Jacob
stared down, his expression mortified.
Edward's low voice was furious. "This is crossing the line."
"He came to warn Charlie?" I guessed, more horrified than angry.
Edward just nodded, answering Billy's gaze through the rain with narrowed eyes.
I felt weak with relief that Charlie wasn't home yet.
"Let me deal with this," I suggested. Edward's black glare made me anxious.
To my surprise, he agreed. "That's probably best. Be careful, though. The child has no idea."
I bridled a little at the word child. "Jacob is not that much younger than I am," I reminded him.He looked at me then, his anger abruptly fading. "Oh, I know," he assured me with a grin.
I sighed and put my hand on the door handle.
"Get them inside," he instructed, "so I can leave. I'll be back around dusk."
"Do you want my truck?" I offered, meanwhile wondering how I would explain its absence to Charlie.
He rolled his eyes. "I could walk home faster than this truck moves."
"You don't have to leave," I said wistfully.
He smiled at my glum expression. "Actually, I do. After you get rid of them" — he threw a dark glance in
the Blacks' direction — "you still have to prepare Charlie to meet your new boyfriend." He grinned
widely, showing all of his teeth.
I groaned. "Thanks a lot."
He smiled the crooked smile that I loved. "I'll be back soon," he promised. His eyes flickered back to the
porch, and then he leaned in to swiftly kiss me just under the edge of my jaw. My heart lurched
frantically, and I, too, glanced toward the porch. Billy's face was no longer impassive, and his hands
clutched at the armrests of his chair.
"Soon," I stressed as I opened the door and stepped out into the rain.
I could feel his eyes on my back as I half-ran through the light sprinkle toward the porch.
"Hey, Billy. Hi, Jacob." I greeted them as cheerfully as I could manage. "Charlie's gone for the day — I
hope you haven't been waiting long."
"Not long," Billy said in a subdued tone. His black eyes were piercing. "I just wanted to bring this up." He
indicated a brown paper sack resting in his lap.
"Thanks," I said, though I had no idea what it could be. "Why don't you come in for a minute and dry
off?"
I pretended to be oblivious to his intense scrutiny as I unlocked the door, and waved them in ahead of
me.
"Here, let me take that," I offered, turning to shut the door. I allowed myself one last glance at Edward.
He was waiting, perfectly still, his eyes solemn.
"You'll want to put it in the fridge," Billy noted as he handed me the package. "It's some of Harry
Clearwater's homemade fish fry — Charlie's favorite. The fridge keeps it drier." He shrugged.
"Thanks," I repeated, but with feeling this time. "I was running out of new ways to fix fish, and he's bound
to bring home more tonight."
"Fishing again?" Billy asked with a subtle gleam in his eye. "Down at the usual spot? Maybe I'll run by
and see him."
"No," I quickly lied, my face going hard. "He was headed someplace new... but I have no idea where."
He took in my changed expression, and it made him thoughtful."Jake," he said, still appraising me. "Why don't you go get that new picture of Rebecca out of the car? I'll
leave that for Charlie, too."
"Where is it?" Jacob asked, his voice morose. I glanced at him, but he was staring at the floor, his
eyebrows pulling together.
"I think I saw it in the trunk," Billy said. "You may have to dig for it."
Jacob slouched back out into the rain.
Billy and I faced each other in silence. After a few seconds, the quiet started to feel awkward, so I turned
and headed to the kitchen. I could hear his wet wheels squeak against the linoleum as he followed.
I shoved the bag onto the crowded top shelf of the fridge, and spun around to confront him. His deeply
lined face was unreadable.
"Charlie won't be back for a long time." My voice was almost rude.
He nodded in agreement, but said nothing.
"Thanks again for the fish fry," I hinted.
He continued nodding. I sighed and folded my arms across my chest.
He seemed to sense that I had given up on small talk. "Bella," he said, and then he hesitated.
I waited.
"Bella," he said again, "Charlie is one of my best friends."
"Yes."
He spoke each word carefully in his rumbling voice. "I noticed you've been spending time with one of the
Cullens."
"Yes," I repeated curtly.
His eyes narrowed. "Maybe it's none of my business, but I don't think that is such a good idea."
"You're right," I agreed. "It is none of your business."
He raised his graying eyebrows at my tone. "You probably don't know this, but the Cullen family has an
unpleasant reputation on the reservation."
"Actually, I did know that," I informed him in a hard voice. This surprised him. "But that reputation
couldn't be deserved, could it? Because the Cullens never set foot on the reservation, do they?" I could
see that my less than subtle reminder of the agreement that both bound and protected his tribe pulled him
up short.
"That's true," he acceded, his eyes guarded. "You seem... well informed about the Cullens. More
informed than I expected."
I stared him down. "Maybe even better informed than you are."
He pursed his thick lips as he considered that. "Maybe." he allowed, but his eyes were shrewd. "Is
Charlie as well informed?"He had found the weak chink in my armor.
"Charlie likes the Cullens a lot," I hedged. He clearly understood my evasion. His expression was
unhappy, but unsurprised.
"It's not my business," he said. "But it may be Charlie's."
"Though it would be my business, again, whether or not I think that it's Charlie's business, right?"
I wondered if he even understood my confused question as I struggled not to say anything compromising.
But he seemed to. He thought about it while the rain picked up against the roof, the only sound breaking
the silence.
"Yes," he finally surrendered. "I guess that's your business, too."
I sighed with relief. "Thanks, Billy."
"Just think about what you're doing, Bella," he urged.
"Okay," I agreed quickly.
He frowned. "What I meant to say was, don't do what you're doing."
I looked into his eyes, filled with nothing but concern for me, and there was nothing I could say.
Just then the front door banged loudly, and I jumped at the sound.
"There's no picture anywhere in that car." Jacob's complaining voice reached us before he did. The
shoulders of his shirt were stained with the rain, his hair dripping, when he rounded the corner.
"Hmm," Billy grunted, suddenly detached, spinning his chair around to face his son. "I guess I left it at
home."
Jacob rolled his eyes dramatically. "Great."
"Well, Bella, tell Charlie" — Billy paused before continuing — "that we stopped by, I mean."
"I will," I muttered.
Jacob was surprised. "Are we leaving already?"
"Charlie's gonna be out late," Billy explained as he rolled himself past Jacob.
"Oh." Jacob looked disappointed. "Well, I guess I'll see you later, then, Bella."
"Sure," I agreed.
"Take care," Billy warned me. I didn't answer.
Jacob helped his father out the door. I waved briefly, glancing swiftly toward my now-empty truck, and
then shut the door before they were gone.
I stood in the hallway for a minute, listening to the sound of their car as it backed out and drove away. I
stayed where I was, waiting for the irritation and anxiety to subside. When the tension eventually faded a
bit, I headed upstairs to change out of my dressy clothes.I tried on a couple of different tops, not sure what to expect tonight. As I concentrated on what was
coming, what had just passed became insignificant. Now that I was removed from Jasper's and Edward's
influence, I began to make up for not being terrified before. I gave up quickly on choosing an outfit —
throwing on an old flannel shirt and jeans — knowing I would be in my raincoat all night anyway.
The phone rang and I sprinted downstairs to get it. There was only one voice I wanted to hear; anything
else would be a disappointment. But I knew that if he wanted to talk to me, he'd probably just
materialize in my room.
"Hello?" I asked, breathless.
"Bella? It's me," Jessica said.
"Oh, hey, Jess." I scrambled for a moment to come back down to reality. It felt like months rather than
days since I'd spoken to Jess. "How was the dance?"
"It was so much fun!" Jessica gushed. Needing no more invitation than that, she launched into a
minute-by-minute account of the previous night. I mmm'd and ahh'd at the right places, but it wasn't easy
to concentrate. Jessica, Mike, the dance, the school — they all seemed strangely irrelevant at the
moment. My eyes kept flashing to the window, trying to judge the degree of light behind the heavy
clouds.
"Did you hear what I said, Bella?" Jess asked, irritated.
"I'm sorry, what?"
"I said, Mike kissed me! Can you believe it?"
"That's wonderful, Jess," I said.
"So what did you do yesterday?" Jessica challenged, still sounding bothered by my lack of attention. Or
maybe she was upset because I hadn't asked for details.
"Nothing, really. I just hung around outside to enjoy the sun."
I heard Charlie's car in the garage.
"Did you ever hear anything more from Edward Cullen?"
The front door slammed and I could hear Charlie banging around under the stairs, putting his tackle
away.
"Um." I hesitated, not sure what my story was anymore.
"Hi there, kiddo!" Charlie called as he walked into the kitchen. I waved at him.
Jess heard his voice. "Oh, your dad's there. Never mind — we'll talk tomorrow. See you in Trig."
"See ya, Jess." I hung up the phone.
"Hey, Dad," I said. He was scrubbing his hands in the sink. "Where's the fish?"
"I put it out in the freezer."
"I'll go grab a few pieces before they freeze — Billy dropped off some of Harry Clearwater's fish fry thisafternoon." I worked to sound enthusiastic.
"He did?" Charlie's eyes lit up. "That's my favorite."
Charlie cleaned up while I got dinner ready. It didn't take long till we were sitting at the table, eating in
silence. Charlie was enjoying his food. I was wondering desperately how to fulfill my assignment,
struggling to think of a way to broach the subject.
"What did you do with yourself today?" he asked, snapping me out of my reverie.
"Well, this afternoon I just hung out around the house..." Only the very recent part of this afternoon,
actually. I tried to keep my voice upbeat, but my stomach was hollow. "And this morning I was over at
the Cullens'."
Charlie dropped his fork.
"Dr. Cullen's place?" he asked in astonishment.
I pretended not to notice his reaction. "Yeah."
"What were you doing there?" He hadn't picked his fork back up.
"Well, I sort of have a date with Edward Cullen tonight, and he wanted to introduce me to his parents...
Dad?"
It appeared that Charlie was having an aneurysm.
"Dad, are you all right?"
"You are going out with Edward Cullen?" he thundered.
Uh-oh. "I thought you liked the Cullens."
"He's too old for you," he ranted.
"We're both juniors," I corrected, though he was more right than he dreamed.
"Wait..." He paused. "Which one is Edwin?"
"Edward is the youngest, the one with the reddish brown hair." The beautiful one, the godlike one...
"Oh, well, that's" — he struggled — "better, I guess. I don't like the look of that big one. I'm sure he's a
nice boy and all, but he looks too... mature for you. Is this Edwin your boyfriend?"
"It's Edward, Dad."
"Is he?"
"Sort of, I guess."
"You said last night that you weren't interested in any of the boys in town." But he picked up his fork
again, so I could see the worst was over.
"Well, Edward doesn't live in town, Dad."
He gave me a disparaging look as he chewed."And, anyways," I continued, "it's kind of at an early stage, you know. Don't embarrass me with all the
boyfriend talk, okay?"
"When is he coming over?"
"He'll be here in a few minutes."
"Where is he taking you?"
I groaned loudly. "I hope you're getting the Spanish Inquisition out of your system now. We're going to
play baseball with his family."
His face puckered, and then he finally chuckled. "You're playing baseball?"
"Well, I'll probably watch most of the time."
"You must really like this guy," he observed suspiciously.
I sighed and rolled my eyes for his benefit.
I heard the roar of an engine pull up in front of the house. I jumped up and started cleaning my dishes.
"Leave the dishes, I can do them tonight. You baby me too much."
The doorbell rang, and Charlie stalked off to answer it. I was half a step behind him.
I hadn't realized how hard it was pouring outside. Edward stood in the halo of the porch light, looking
like a male model in an advertisement for raincoats.
"Come on in, Edward."
I breathed a sigh of relief when Charlie got his name right.
"Thanks, Chief Swan," Edward said in a respectful voice.
"Go ahead and call me Charlie. Here, I'll take your jacket."
"Thanks, sir."
"Have a seat there, Edward."
I grimaced.
Edward sat down fluidly in the only chair, forcing me to sit next to Chief Swan on the sofa. I quickly shot
him a dirty look. He winked behind Charlie's back.
"So I hear you're getting my girl to watch baseball." Only in Washington would the fact that it was raining
buckets have no bearing at all on the playing of outdoor sports.
"Yes, sir, that's the plan." He didn't look surprised that I'd told my father the truth. He might have been
listening, though.
"Well, more power to you, I guess."
Charlie laughed, and Edward joined in."Okay." I stood up. "Enough humor at my expense. Let's go." I walked back to the hall and pulled on my
jacket. They followed.
"Not too late, Bell."
"Don't worry, Charlie, I'll have her home early," Edward promised.
"You take care of my girl, all right?"
I groaned, but they ignored me.
"She'll be safe with me, I promise, sir."
Charlie couldn't doubt Edward's sincerity, it rang in every word.
I stalked out. They both laughed, and Edward followed me.
I stopped dead on the porch. There, behind my truck, was a monster Jeep. Its tires were higher than my
waist. There were metal guards over the headlights and tail-lights, and four large spotlights attached to the
crash bar. The hardtop was shiny red.
Charlie let out a low whistle.
"Wear your seat belts," he choked out.
Edward followed me around to my side and opened the door. I gauged the distance to the seat and
prepared to jump for it. He sighed, and then lifted me in with one hand. I hoped Charlie didn't notice.
As he went around to the driver's side, at a normal, human pace, I tried to put on my seat belt. But there
were too many buckles.
"What's all this?" I asked when he opened the door.
"It's an off-roading harness."
"Uh-oh."
I tried to find the right places for all the buckles to fit, but it wasn't going too quickly. He sighed again and
reached over to help me. I was glad that the rain was too heavy to see Charlie clearly on the porch. That
meant he couldn't see how Edward's hands lingered at my neck, brushed along my collarbones. I gave up
trying to help him and focused on not hyperventilating.
Edward turned the key and the engine roared to life. We pulled away from the house.
"This is a... um... big Jeep you have."
"It's Emmett's. I didn't think you'd want to run the whole way."
"Where do you keep this thing?"
"We remodeled one of the outbuildings into a garage."
"Aren't you going to put on your seat belt?"
He threw me a disbelieving look.Then something sunk in.
"Run the whole way? As in, we're still going to run part of the way?" My voice edged up a few octaves.
He grinned tightly. "You're not going to run."
"I'm going to be sick."
"Keep your eyes closed, you'll be fine."
I bit my lip, fighting the panic.
He leaned over to kiss the top of my head, and then groaned. I looked at him, puzzled.
"You smell so good in the rain," he explained.
"In a good way, or in a bad way?" I asked cautiously.
He sighed. "Both, always both."
I don't know how he found his way in the gloom and downpour, but he somehow found a side road that
was less of a road and more of a mountain path. For a long while conversation was impossible, because I
was bouncing up and down on the seat like a jackhammer. He seemed to enjoy the ride, though, smiling
hugely the whole way.
And then we came to the end of the road; the trees formed green walls on three sides of the Jeep. The
rain was a mere drizzle, slowing every second, the sky brighter through the clouds.
"Sorry, Bella, we have to go on foot from here."
"You know what? I'll just wait here."
"What happened to all your courage? You were extraordinary this morning."
"I haven't forgotten the last time yet." Could it have been only yesterday?
He was around to my side of the car in a blur. He started unbuckling me.
"I'll get those, you go on ahead," I protested.
"Hmmm..." he mused as he quickly finished. "It seems I'm going to have to tamper with your memory."
Before I could react, he pulled me from the Jeep and set my feet on the ground. It was barely misting
now; Alice was going to be right.
"Tamper with my memory?" I asked nervously.
"Something like that." He was watching me intently, carefully, but there was humor deep in his eyes. He
placed his hands against the Jeep on either side of my head and leaned forward, forcing me to press back
against the door. He leaned in even closer, his face inches from mine. I had no room to escape.
"Now," he breathed, and just his smell disturbed my thought processes, "what exactly are you worrying
about?"
"Well, um, hitting a tree —" I gulped "— and dying. And then getting sick."He fought back a smile. Then he bent his head down and touched his cold lips softly to the hollow at the
base of my throat.
"Are you still worried now?" he murmured against my skin.
"Yes." I struggled to concentrate. "About hitting trees and getting sick."
His nose drew a line up the skin of my throat to the point of my chin. His cold breath tickled my skin.
"And now?" His lips whispered against my jaw.
"Trees," I gasped. "Motion sickness."
He lifted his face to kiss my eyelids. "Bella, you don't really think I would hit a tree, do you?"
"No, but I might." There was no confidence in my voice. He smelled an easy victory.
He kissed slowly down my cheek, stopping just at the corner of my mouth.
"Would I let a tree hurt you?" His lips barely brushed against my trembling lower lip.
"No," I breathed. I knew there was a second part to my brilliant defense, but I couldn't quite call it back.
"You see," he said, his lips moving against mine. "There's nothing to be afraid of, is there?"
"No," I sighed, giving up.
Then he took my face in his hands almost roughly, and kissed me in earnest, his unyielding lips moving
against mine.
There really was no excuse for my behavior. Obviously I knew better by now. And yet I couldn't seem
to stop from reacting exactly as I had the first time. Instead of keeping safely motionless, my arms
reached up to twine tightly around his neck, and I was suddenly welded to his stone figure. I sighed, and
my lips parted.
He staggered back, breaking my grip effortlessly.
"Damn it, Bella!" he broke off, gasping. "You'll be the death of me, I swear you will."
I leaned over, bracing my hands against my knees for support.
"You're indestructible," I mumbled, trying to catch my breath.
"I might have believed that before I met you. Now let's get out of here before I do something really
stupid," he growled.
He threw me across his back as he had before, and I could see the extra effort it took for him to be as
gentle as he was. I locked my legs around his waist and secured my arms in a choke hold around his
neck.
"Don't forget to close your eyes," he warned severely.
I quickly tucked my face into his shoulder blade, under my own arm, and squeezed my eyes shut.
And I could hardly tell we were moving. I could feel him gliding along beneath me, but he could have
been strolling down the sidewalk, the movement was so smooth. I was tempted to peek, just to see if hewas really flying through the forest like before, but I resisted. It wasn't worth that awful dizziness. I
contented myself with listening to his breath come and go evenly.
I wasn't quite sure we had stopped until he reached back and touched my hair.
"It's over, Bella."
I dared to open my eyes, and, sure enough, we were at a standstill. I stiffly unlocked my stranglehold on
his body and slipped to the ground, landing on my backside.
"Oh!" I huffed as I hit the wet ground.
He stared at me incredulously, evidently not sure whether he was still too mad to find me funny. But my
bewildered expression pushed him over the edge, and he broke into a roar of laughter.
I picked myself up, ignoring him as I brushed the mud and bracken off the back of my jacket. That only
made him laugh harder. Annoyed, I began to stride off into the forest.
I felt his arm around my waist.
"Where are you going, Bella?"
"To watch a baseball game. You don't seem to be interested in playing anymore, but I'm sure the others
will have fun without you."
"You're going the wrong way."
I turned around without looking at him, and stalked off in the opposite direction. He caught me again.
"Don't be mad, I couldn't help myself. You should have seen your face." He chuckled before he could
stop himself.
"Oh, you're the only one who's allowed to get mad?" I asked, raising my eyebrows.
"I wasn't mad at you."
"'Bella, you'll be the death of me'?" I quoted sourly.
"That was simply a statement of fact."
I tried to turn away from him again, but he held me fast.
"You were mad," I insisted.
"Yes."
"But you just said —"
"That I wasn't mad at you. Can't you see that, Bella?" He was suddenly intense, all trace of teasing gone.
"Don't you understand?"
"See what?" I demanded, confused by his sudden mood swing as much as his words.
"I'm never angry with you — how could I be? Brave, trusting... warm as you are."
"Then why?" I whispered, remembering the black moods that pulled him away from me, that I'd alwaysinterpreted as well-justified frustration — frustration at my weakness, my slowness, my unruly human
reactions...
He put his hands carefully on both sides of my face. "I infuriate myself," he said gently. "The way I can't
seem to keep from putting you in danger. My very existence puts you at risk. Sometimes I truly hate
myself. I should be stronger, I should be able to —"
I placed my hand over his mouth. "Don't."
He took my hand, moving it from his lips, but holding it to his face.
"I love you," he said. "It's a poor excuse for what I'm doing, but it's still true."
It was the first time he'd said he loved me — in so many words. He might not realize it, but I certainly
did.
"Now, please try to behave yourself," he continued, and he bent to softly brush his lips against mine.
I held properly still. Then I sighed.
"You promised Chief Swan that you would have me home early, remember? We'd better get going."
"Yes, ma'am."
He smiled wistfully and released all of me but one hand. He led me a few feet through the tall, wet ferns
and draping moss, around a massive hemlock tree, and we were there, on the edge of an enormous open
field in the lap of the Olympic peaks. It was twice the size of any baseball stadium.
I could see the others all there; Esme, Emmett, and Rosalie, sitting on a bare outcropping of rock, were
the closest to us, maybe a hundred yards away. Much farther out I could see Jasper and Alice, at least a
quarter of a mile apart, appearing to throw something back and forth, but I never saw any ball. It looked
like Carlisle was marking bases, but could they really be that far apart?
When we came into view, the three on the rocks rose.
Esme started toward us. Emmett followed after a long look at Rosalie's back; Rosalie had risen gracefully
and strode off toward the field without a glance in our direction. My stomach quivered uneasily in
response.
"Was that you we heard, Edward?" Esme asked as she approached.
"It sounded like a bear choking," Emmett clarified.
I smiled hesitantly at Esme. "That was him."
"Bella was being unintentionally funny," Edward explained, quickly settling the score.
Alice had left her position and was running, or dancing, toward us. She hurtled to a fluid stop at our feet.
"It's time," she announced.
As soon as she spoke, a deep rumble of thunder shook the forest beyond us, and then crashed westward
toward town.
"Eerie, isn't it?" Emmett said with easy familiarity, winking at me."Let's go." Alice reached for Emmett's hand and they darted toward the oversized field; she ran like a
gazelle. He was nearly as graceful and just as fast — yet Emmett could never be compared to a gazelle.
"Are you ready for some ball?" Edward asked, his eyes eager, bright.
I tried to sound appropriately enthusiastic. "Go team!"
He snickered and, after mussing my hair, bounded off after the other two. His run was more aggressive, a
cheetah rather than a gazelle, and he quickly overtook them. The grace and power took my breath away.
"Shall we go down?" Esme asked in her soft, melodic voice, and I realized I was staring openmouthed
after him. I quickly reassembled my expression and nodded. Esme kept a few feet between us, and I
wondered if she was still being careful not to frighten me. She matched her stride to mine without seeming
impatient at the pace.
"You don't play with them?" I asked shyly.
"No, I prefer to referee — I like keeping them honest," she explained.
"Do they like to cheat, then?"
"Oh yes — you should hear the arguments they get into! Actually, I hope you don't, you would think they
were raised by a pack of wolves."
"You sound like my mom," I laughed, surprised.
She laughed, too. "Well, I do think of them as my children in most ways. I never could get over my
mothering instincts — did Edward tell you I had lost a child?"
"No," I murmured, stunned, scrambling to understand what lifetime she was remembering.
"Yes, my first and only baby. He died just a few days after he was born, the poor tiny thing," she sighed.
"It broke my heart — that's why I jumped off the cliff, you know," she added matter-of-factly.
"Edward just said you f-fell," I stammered.
"Always the gentleman." She smiled. "Edward was the first of my new sons. I've always thought of him
that way, even though he's older than I, in one way at least." She smiled at me warmly. "That's why I'm
so happy that he's found you, dear." The endearment sounded very natural on her lips. "He's been the
odd man out for far too long; it's hurt me to see him alone."
"You don't mind, then?" I asked, hesitant again. "That I'm... all wrong for him?"
"No." She was thoughtful. "You're what he wants. It will work out, somehow," she said, though her
forehead creased with worry. Another peal of thunder began.
Esme stopped then; apparently, we'd reached the edge of the field. It looked as if they had formed
teams. Edward was far out in left field, Carlisle stood between the first and second bases, and Alice held
the ball, positioned on the spot that must be the pitcher's mound.
Emmett was swinging an aluminum bat; it whistled almost untraceably through the air. I waited for him to
approach home plate, but then I realized, as he took his stance, that he was already there — farther from
the pitcher's mound than I would have thought possible. Jasper stood several feet behind him, catching
for the other team. Of course, none of them had gloves."All right," Esme called in a clear voice, which I knew even Edward would hear, as far out as he was.
"Batter up."
Alice stood straight, deceptively motionless. Her style seemed to be stealth rather than an intimidating
windup. She held the ball in both hands at her waist, and then, like the strike of a cobra, her right hand
flicked out and the ball smacked into Jasper's hand.
"Was that a strike?" I whispered to Esme.
"If they don't hit it, it's a strike," she told me.
Jasper hurled the ball back to Alice's waiting hand. She permitted herself a brief grin. And then her hand
spun out again.
This time the bat somehow made it around in time to smash into the invisible ball. The crack of impact
was shattering, thunderous; it echoed off the mountains — I immediately understood the necessity of the
thunderstorm.
The ball shot like a meteor above the field, flying deep into the surrounding forest.
"Home run," I murmured.
"Wait," Esme cautioned, listening intently, one hand raised. Emmett was a blur around the bases, Carlisle
shadowing him. I realized Edward was missing.
"Out!" Esme cried in a clear voice. I stared in disbelief as Edward sprang from the fringe of the trees, ball
in his upraised hand, his wide grin visible even to me.
"Emmett hits the hardest," Esme explained, "but Edward runs the fastest."
The inning continued before my incredulous eyes. It was impossible to keep up with the speed at which
the ball flew, the rate at which their bodies raced around the field.
I learned the other reason they waited for a thunderstorm to play when Jasper, trying to avoid Edward's
infallible fielding, hit a ground ball toward Carlisle. Carlisle ran into the ball, and then raced Jasper to first
base. When they collided, the sound was like the crash of two massive falling boulders. I jumped up in
concern, but they were somehow unscathed.
"Safe," Esme called in a calm voice.
Emmett's team was up by one — Rosalie managed to flit around the bases after tagging up on one of
Emmett's long flies — when Edward caught the third out. He sprinted to my side, sparkling with
excitement.
"What do you think?" he asked.
"One thing's for sure, I'll never be able to sit through dull old Major League Baseball again."
"And it sounds like you did so much of that before," he laughed.
"I am a little disappointed," I teased.
"Why?" he asked, puzzled.
"Well, it would be nice if I could find just one thing you didn't do better than everyone else on the planet."He flashed his special crooked smile, leaving me breathless.
"I'm up," he said, heading for the plate.
He played intelligently, keeping the ball low, out of the reach of Rosalie's always-ready hand in the
outfield, gaining two bases like lightning before Emmett could get the ball back in play. Carlisle knocked
one so far out of the field — with a boom that hurt my ears — that he and Edward both made it in. Alice
slapped them dainty high fives.
The score constantly changed as the game continued, and they razzed each other like any street
ballplayers as they took turns with the lead. Occasionally Esme would call them to order. The thunder
rumbled on, but we stayed dry, as Alice had predicted.
Carlisle was up to bat, Edward catching, when Alice suddenly gasped. My eyes were on Edward, as
usual, and I saw his head snap up to look at her. Their eyes met and something flowed between them in
an instant. He was at my side before the others could ask Alice what was wrong.
"Alice?" Esme's voice was tense.
"I didn't see — I couldn't tell," she whispered.
All the others were gathered by this time.
"What is it, Alice?" Carlisle asked with the calm voice of authority.
"They were traveling much quicker than I thought. I can see I had the perspective wrong before," she
murmured.
Jasper leaned over her, his posture protective. "What changed?" he asked.
"They heard us playing, and it changed their path," she said, contrite, as if she felt responsible for
whatever had frightened her.
Seven pairs of quick eyes flashed to my face and away.
"How soon?" Carlisle said, turning toward Edward.
A look of intense concentration crossed his face.
"Less than five minutes. They're running — they want to play." He scowled.
"Can you make it?" Carlisle asked him, his eyes flicking toward me again.
"No, not carrying —" He cut short. "Besides, the last thing we need is for them to catch the scent and
start hunting."
"How many?" Emmett asked Alice.
"Three," she answered tersely.
"Three!" he scoffed. "Let them come." The steel bands of muscle flexed along his massive arms.
For a split second that seemed much longer than it really was, Carlisle deliberated. Only Emmett seemed
unperturbed; the rest stared at Carlisle's face with anxious eyes.
"Let's just continue the game," Carlisle finally decided. His voice was cool and level. "Alice said theywere simply curious."
All this was said in a flurry of words that lasted only a few seconds. I had listened carefully and caught
most of it, though I couldn't hear what Esme now asked Edward with a silent vibration of her lips. I only
saw the slight shake of his head and the look of relief on her face.
"You catch, Esme," he said. "I'll call it now." And he planted himself in front of me.
The others returned to the field, warily sweeping the dark forest with their sharp eyes. Alice and Esme
seemed to orient themselves around where I stood.
"Take your hair down," Edward said in a low, even voice.
I obediently slid the rubber band out of my hair and shook it out around me.
I stated the obvious. "The others are coming now."
"Yes, stay very still, keep quiet, and don't move from my side, please." He hid the stress in his voice well,
but I could hear it. He pulled my long hair forward, around my face.
"That won't help," Alice said softly. "I could smell her across the field."
"I know." A hint of frustration colored his tone.
Carlisle stood at the plate, and the others joined the game halfheartedly.
"What did Esme ask you?" I whispered.
He hesitated for a second before he answered. "Whether they were thirsty," he muttered unwillingly.
The seconds ticked by; the game progressed with apathy now. No one dared to hit harder than a bunt,
and Emmett, Rosalie, and Jasper hovered in the infield. Now and again, despite the fear that numbed my
brain, I was aware of Rosalie's eyes on me. They were expressionless, but something about the way she
held her mouth made me think she was angry.
Edward paid no attention to the game at all, eyes and mind ranging the forest.
"I'm sorry, Bella," he muttered fiercely. "It was stupid, irresponsible, to expose you like this. I'm so
sorry."
I heard his breath stop, and his eyes zeroed in on right field. He took a half step, angling himself between
me and what was coming.
Carlisle, Emmett, and the others turned in the same direction, hearing sounds of passage much too faint
for my ears.
18. THE HUNT
They emerged one by one from the forest edge, ranging a dozen meters apart. The first male into the
clearing fell back immediately, allowing the other male to take the front, orienting himself around the tall,
dark-haired man in a manner that clearly displayed who led the pack. The third was a woman; from this
distance, all I could see of her was that her hair was a startling shade of red.They closed ranks before they continued cautiously toward Edward's family, exhibiting the natural
respect of a troop of predators as it encounters a larger, unfamiliar group of its own kind.
As they approached, I could see how different they were from the Cullens. Their walk was catlike, a gait
that seemed constantly on the edge of shifting into a crouch. They dressed in the ordinary gear of
backpackers: jeans and casual button-down shirts in heavy, weatherproof fabrics. The clothes were
frayed, though, with wear, and they were barefoot. Both men had cropped hair, but the woman's brilliant
orange hair was filled with leaves and debris from the woods.
Their sharp eyes carefully took in the more polished, urbane stance of Carlisle, who, flanked by Emmett
and Jasper, stepped guardedly forward to meet them. Without any seeming communication between
them, they each straightened into a more casual, erect bearing.
The man in front was easily the most beautiful, his skin olive-toned beneath the typical pallor, his hair a
glossy black. He was of a medium build, hard-muscled, of course, but nothing next to Emmett's brawn.
He smiled an easy smile, exposing a flash of gleaming white teeth.
The woman was wilder, her eyes shifting restlessly between the men facing her, and the loose grouping
around me, her chaotic hair quivering in the slight breeze. Her posture was distinctly feline. The second
male hovered unobtrusively behind them, slighter than the leader, his light brown hair and regular features
both nondescript. His eyes, though completely still, somehow seemed the most vigilant.
Their eyes were different, too. Not the gold or black I had come to expect, but a deep burgundy color
that was disturbing and sinister.
The dark-haired man, still smiling, stepped toward Carlisle.
"We thought we heard a game," he said in a relaxed voice with the slightest of French accents. "I'm
Laurent, these are Victoria and James." He gestured to the vampires beside him.
"I'm Carlisle. This is my family, Emmett and Jasper, Rosalie, Esme and Alice, Edward and Bella." He
pointed us out in groups, deliberately not calling attention to individuals. I felt a shock when he said my
name.
"Do you have room for a few more players?" Laurent asked sociably.
Carlisle matched Laurent's friendly tone. "Actually, we were just finishing up. But we'd certainly be
interested another time. Are you planning to stay in the area for long?"
"We're headed north, in fact, but we were curious to see who was in the neighborhood. We haven't run
into any company in a long time."
"No, this region is usually empty except for us and the occasional visitor, like yourselves."
The tense atmosphere had slowly subsided into a casual conversation; I guessed that Jasper was using his
peculiar gift to control the situation.
"What's your hunting range?" Laurent casually inquired.
Carlisle ignored the assumption behind the inquiry. "The Olympic Range here, up and down the Coast
Ranges on occasion. We keep a permanent residence nearby. There's another permanent settlement like
ours up near Denali."
Laurent rocked back on his heels slightly."Permanent? How do you manage that?" There was honest curiosity in his voice.
"Why don't you come back to our home with us and we can talk comfortably?" Carlisle invited. "It's a
rather long story."
James and Victoria exchanged a surprised look at the mention of the word "home," but Laurent
controlled his expression better.
"That sounds very interesting, and welcome." His smile was genial. "We've been on the hunt all the way
down from Ontario, and we haven't had the chance to clean up in a while." His eyes moved
appreciatively over Carlisle's refined appearance.
"Please don't take offense, but we'd appreciate it if you'd refrain from hunting in this immediate area. We
have to stay inconspicuous, you understand," Carlisle explained.
"Of course." Laurent nodded. "We certainly won't encroach on your territory. We just ate outside of
Seattle, anyway," he laughed. A shiver ran up my spine.
"We'll show you the way if you'd like to run with us — Emmett and Alice, you can go with Edward and
Bella to get the Jeep," he casually added.
Three things seemed to happen simultaneously while Carlisle was speaking. My hair ruffled with the light
breeze, Edward stiffened, and the second male, James, suddenly whipped his head around, scrutinizing
me, his nostrils flaring.
A swift rigidity fell on all of them as James lurched one step forward into a crouch. Edward bared his
teeth, crouching in defense, a feral snarl ripping from his throat.
It was nothing like the playful sounds I'd heard from him this morning; it was the single most menacing
thing I had ever heard, and chills ran from the crown of my head to the back of my heels.
"What's this?" Laurent exclaimed in open surprise. Neither James nor Edward relaxed their aggressive
poses. James feinted slightly to the side, and Edward shifted in response.
"She's with us." Carlisle's firm rebuff was directed toward James. Laurent seemed to catch my scent less
powerfully than James, but awareness now dawned on his face.
"You brought a snack?" he asked, his expression incredulous as he took an involuntary step forward.
Edward snarled even more ferociously, harshly, his lip curling high above his glistening, bared teeth.
Laurent stepped back again.
"I said she's with us," Carlisle corrected in a hard voice.
"But she's human," Laurent protested. The words were not at all aggressive, merely astounded.
"Yes." Emmett was very much in evidence at Carlisle's side, his eyes on James. James slowly
straightened out of his crouch, but his eyes never left me, his nostrils still wide. Edward stayed tensed like
a lion in front of me.
When Laurent spoke, his tone was soothing — trying to defuse the sudden hostility. "It appears we have
a lot to learn about each other."
"Indeed." Carlisle's voice was still cool."But we'd like to accept your invitation." His eyes flicked toward me and back to Carlisle. "And, of
course, we will not harm the human girl. We won't hunt in your range, as I said."
James glanced in disbelief and aggravation at Laurent and exchanged another brief look with Victoria,
whose eyes still flickered edgily from face to face.
Carlisle measured Laurent's open expression for a moment before he spoke. "We'll show you the way.
Jasper, Rosalie, Esme?" he called. They gathered together, blocking me from view as they converged.
Alice was instantly at my side, and Emmett fell back slowly, his eyes locked on James as he backed
toward us.
"Let's go, Bella." Edward's voice was low and bleak.
This whole time I'd been rooted in place, terrified into absolute immobility. Edward had to grip my elbow
and pull sharply to break my trance. Alice and Emmett were close behind us, hiding me. I stumbled
alongside Edward, still stunned with fear. I couldn't hear if the main group had left yet. Edward's
impatience was almost tangible as we moved at human speed to the forest edge.
Once we were into the trees, Edward slung me over his back without breaking stride. I gripped as tightly
as possible as he took off, the others close on his heels. I kept my head down, but my eyes, wide with
fright, wouldn't close. They plunged through the now-black forest like wraiths. The sense of exhilaration
that usually seemed to possess Edward as he ran was completely absent, replaced by a fury that
consumed him and drove him still faster. Even with me on his back, the others trailed behind.
We reached the Jeep in an impossibly short time, and Edward barely slowed as he flung me in the
backseat.
"Strap her in," he ordered Emmett, who slid in beside me.
Alice was already in the front seat, and Edward was starting the engine. It roared to life and we swerved
backward, spinning around to face the winding road.
Edward was growling something too fast for me to understand, but it sounded a lot like a string of
profanities.
The jolting trip was much worse this time, and the darkness only made it more frightening. Emmett and
Alice both glared out the side windows.
We hit the main road, and though our speed increased, I could see much better where we were going.
And we were headed south, away from Forks.
"Where are we going?" I asked.
No one answered. No one even looked at me.
"Dammit, Edward! Where are you taking me?"
"We have to get you away from here — far away — now." He didn't look back, his eyes on the road.
The speedometer read a hundred and five miles an hour.
"Turn around! You have to take me home!" I shouted. I struggled with the stupid harness, tearing at the
straps.
"Emmett," Edward said grimly.And Emmett secured my hands in his steely grasp.
"No! Edward! No, you can't do this."
"I have to, Bella, now please be quiet."
"I won't! You have to take me back — Charlie will call the FBI! They'll be all over your family —
Carlisle and Esme! They'll have to leave, to hide forever!"
"Calm down, Bella." His voice was cold. "We've been there before."
"Not over me, you don't! You're not ruining everything over me!" I struggled violently, with total futility.
Alice spoke for the first time. "Edward, pull over."
He flashed her a hard look, and then sped up.
"Edward, let's just talk this through."
"You don't understand," he roared in frustration. I'd never heard his voice so loud; it was deafening in the
confines of the Jeep. The speedometer neared one hundred and fifteen. "He's a tracker, Alice, did you
see that? He's a tracker!"
I felt Emmett stiffen next to me, and I wondered at his reaction to the word. It meant something more to
the three of them than it did to me; I wanted to understand, but there was no opening for me to ask.
"Pull over, Edward." Alice's tone was reasonable, but there was a ring of authority in it I'd never heard
before.
The speedometer inched passed one-twenty.
"Do it, Edward."
"Listen to me, Alice. I saw his mind. Tracking is his passion, his obsession — and he wants her, Alice —
her, specifically. He begins the hunt tonight."
"He doesn't know where —"
He interrupted her. "How long do you think it will take him to cross her scent in town? His plan was
already set before the words were out of Laurent's mouth."
I gasped, knowing where my scent would lead. "Charlie! You can't leave him there! You can't leave
him!" I thrashed against the harness.
"She's right," Alice said.
The car slowed slightly.
"Let's just look at our options for a minute," Alice coaxed.
The car slowed again, more noticeably, and then suddenly we screeched to a stop on the shoulder of the
highway. I flew against the harness, and then slammed back into the seat.
"There are no options," Edward hissed.
"I'm not leaving Charlie!" I yelled.He ignored me completely.
"We have to take her back," Emmett finally spoke.
"No." Edward was absolute.
"He's no match for us, Edward. He won't be able to touch her."
"He'll wait."
Emmett smiled. "I can wait, too."
"You didn't see — you don't understand. Once he commits to a hunt, he's unshakable. We'd have to kill
him."
Emmett didn't seem upset by the idea. "That's an option."
"And the female. She's with him. If it turns into a fight, the leader will go with them, too."
"There are enough of us."
"There's another option," Alice said quietly.
Edward turned on her in fury, his voice a blistering snarl. "There — is — no — other — option!"
Emmett and I both stared at him in shock, but Alice seemed unsurprised. The silence lasted for a long
minute as Edward and Alice stared each other down.
I broke it. "Does anyone want to hear my plan?"
"No," Edward growled. Alice glared at him, finally provoked.
"Listen," I pleaded. "You take me back."
"No," he interrupted.
I glared at him and continued. "You take me back. I tell my dad I want to go home to Phoenix. I pack
my bags. We wait till this tracker is watching, and then we run. He'll follow us and leave Charlie alone.
Charlie won't call the FBI on your family. Then you can take me any damned place you want."
They stared at me, stunned.
"It's not a bad idea, really." Emmett's surprise was definitely an insult.
"It might work — and we simply can't leave her father unprotected. You know that," Alice said.
Everyone looked at Edward.
"It's too dangerous — I don't want him within a hundred miles of her."
Emmett was supremely confident. "Edward, he's not getting through us."
Alice thought for a minute. "I don't see him attacking. He'll try to wait for us to leave her alone."
"It won't take long for him to realize that's not going to happen."
"I demand that you take me home." I tried to sound firm.Edward pressed his fingers to his temples and squeezed his eyes shut.
"Please," I said in a much smaller voice.
He didn't look up. When he spoke, his voice sounded worn.
"You're leaving tonight, whether the tracker sees or not. You tell Charlie that you can't stand another
minute in Forks. Tell him whatever story works. Pack the first things your hands touch, and then get in
your truck. I don't care what he says to you. You have fifteen minutes. Do you hear me? Fifteen minutes
from the time you cross the doorstep."
The Jeep rumbled to life, and he spun us around, the tires squealing. The needle on the speedometer
started to race up the dial.
"Emmett?" I asked, looking pointedly at my hands.
"Oh, sorry." He let me loose.
A few minutes passed in silence, other than the roar of the engine. Then Edward spoke again.
"This is how it's going to happen. When we get to the house, if the tracker is not there, I will walk her to
the door. Then she has fifteen minutes." He glared at me in the rearview mirror. "Emmett, you take the
outside of the house. Alice, you get the truck. I'll be inside as long as she is. After she's out, you two can
take the Jeep home and tell Carlisle."
"No way," Emmett broke in. "I'm with you."
"Think it through, Emmett. I don't know how long I'll be gone."
"Until we know how far this is going to go, I'm with you."
Edward sighed. "If the tracker is there," he continued grimly, "we keep driving."
"We're going to make it there before him," Alice said confidently.
Edward seemed to accept that. Whatever his problem with Alice was, he didn't doubt her now.
"What are we going to do with the Jeep?" she asked.
His voice had a hard edge. "You're driving it home."
"No, I'm not," she said calmly.
The unintelligible stream of profanities started again.
"We can't all fit in my truck," I whispered.
Edward didn't appear to hear me.
"I think you should let me go alone," I said even more quietly.
He heard that.
"Bella, please just do this my way, just this once," he said between clenched teeth.
"Listen, Charlie's not an imbecile," I protested. "If you're not in town tomorrow, he's going to getsuspicious."
"That's irrelevant. We'll make sure he's safe, and that's all that matters."
"Then what about this tracker? He saw the way you acted tonight. He's going to think you're with me,
wherever you are."
Emmett looked at me, insultingly surprised again. "Edward, listen to her," he urged. "I think she's right."
"Yes, she is," Alice agreed.
"I can't do that." Edward's voice was icy.
"Emmett should stay, too," I continued. "He definitely got an eyeful of Emmett."
"What?" Emmett turned on me.
"You'll get a better crack at him if you stay," Alice agreed.
Edward stared at her incredulously. "You think I should let her go alone?"
"Of course not," Alice said. "Jasper and I will take her."
"I can't do that," Edward repeated, but this time there was a trace of defeat in his voice. The logic was
working on him.
I tried to be persuasive. "Hang out here for a week —" I saw his expression in the mirror and amended
"— a few days. Let Charlie see you haven't kidnapped me, and lead this James on a wild-goose chase.
Make sure he's completely off my trail. Then come and meet me. Take a roundabout route, of course,
and then Jasper and Alice can go home."
I could see him beginning to consider it.
"Meet you where?"
"Phoenix." Of course.
"No. He'll hear that's where you're going," he said impatiently.
"And you'll make it look like that's a ruse, obviously. He'll know that we'll know that he's listening. He'll
never believe I'm actually going where I say I am going."
"She's diabolical," Emmett chuckled.
"And if that doesn't work?"
"There are several million people in Phoenix," I informed him.
"It's not that hard to find a phone book."
"I won't go home."
"Oh?" he inquired, a dangerous note in his voice.
"I'm quite old enough to get my own place.""Edward, we'll be with her," Alice reminded him.
"What are you going to do in Phoenix?" he asked her scathingly.
"Stay indoors."
"I kind of like it." Emmett was thinking about cornering James, no doubt.
"Shut up, Emmett."
"Look, if we try to take him down while she's still around, there's a much better chance that someone
will get hurt — she'll get hurt, or you will, trying to protect her. Now, if we get him alone..." He trailed
off with a slow smile. I was right.
The Jeep was crawling slowly along now as we drove into town. Despite my brave talk, I could feel the
hairs on my arms standing up. I thought about Charlie, alone in the house, and tried to be courageous.
"Bella." Edward's voice was very soft. Alice and Emmett looked out their windows. "If you let anything
happen to yourself— anything at all — I'm holding you personally responsible. Do you understand that?"
"Yes," I gulped.
He turned to Alice.
"Can Jasper handle this?"
"Give him some credit, Edward. He's been doing very, very well, all things considered."
"Can you handle this?" he asked.
And graceful little Alice pulled back her lips in a horrific grimace and let loose with a guttural snarl that
had me cowering against the seat in terror.
Edward smiled at her. "But keep your opinions to yourself," he muttered suddenly.
19. GOODBYES
Charlie was waiting up for me. All the house lights were on. My mind was blank as I tried to think of a
way to make him let me go. This wasn't going to be pleasant.
Edward pulled up slowly, staying well back from my truck. All three of them were acutely alert, ramrod
straight in their seats, listening to every sound of the wood, looking through every shadow, catching every
scent, searching for something out of place. The engine cut off, and I sat, motionless, as they continued to
listen.
"He's not here," Edward said tensely. "Let's go." Emmett reached over to help me get out of the harness.
"Don't worry, Bella," he said in a low but cheerful voice, "we'll take care of things here quickly."
I felt moisture filling up my eyes as I looked at Emmett. I barely knew him, and yet, somehow, not
knowing when I would see him again after tonight was anguishing. I knew this was just a faint taste of the
goodbyes I would have to survive in the next hour, and the thought made the tears begin to spill."Alice, Emmett." Edward's voice was a command. They slithered soundlessly into the darkness, instantly
disappearing. Edward opened my door and took my hand, then drew me into the protecting enclosure of
his arm. He walked me swiftly toward the house, eyes always roving through the night.
"Fifteen minutes," he warned under his breath.
"I can do this." I sniffled. My tears had given me an inspiration.
I stopped on the porch and took hold of his face in my hands. I looked fiercely into his eyes.
"I love you," I said in a low, intense voice. "I will always love you, no matter what happens now."
"Nothing is going to happen to you, Bella," he said just as fiercely.
"Just follow the plan, okay? Keep Charlie safe for me. He's not going to like me very much after this, and
I want to have the chance to apologize later."
"Get inside, Bella. We have to hurry." His voice was urgent.
"One more thing," I whispered passionately. "Don't listen to another word I say tonight!" He was leaning
in, and so all I had to do was stretch up on my toes to kiss his surprised, frozen lips with as much force
as I was capable of. Then I turned and kicked the door open.
"Go away, Edward!" I yelled at him, running inside and slamming the door shut in his still-shocked face.
"Bella?" Charlie had been hovering in the living room, and he was already on his feet.
"Leave me alone!" I screamed at him through my tears, which were flowing relentlessly now. I ran up the
stairs to my room, throwing the door shut and locking it. I ran to my bed, flinging myself on the floor to
retrieve my duffel bag. I reached swiftly between the mattress and box spring to grab the knotted old
sock that contained my secret cash hoard.
Charlie was pounding on my door.
"Bella, are you okay? What's going on?" His voice was frightened.
"I'm going borne," I shouted, my voice breaking in the perfect spot.
"Did he hurt you?" His tone edged toward anger.
"No!" I shrieked a few octaves higher. I turned to my dresser, and Edward was already there, silently
yanking out armfuls of random clothes, which he proceeded to throw to me.
"Did he break up with you?" Charlie was perplexed.
"No!" I yelled, slightly more breathless as I shoved everything into the bag. Edward threw another
drawer's contents at me. The bag was pretty much full now.
"What happened, Bella?" Charlie shouted through the door, pounding again.
"I broke up with him!" I shouted back, jerking on the zipper of my bag. Edward's capable hands pushed
mine away and zipped it smoothly. He put the strap carefully over my arm.
"I'll be in the truck — go!" he whispered, and pushed me toward the door. He vanished out the window.
I unlocked the door and pushed past Charlie roughly, struggling with my heavy bag as I ran down thestairs.
"What happened?" he yelled. He was right behind me. "I thought you liked him."
He caught my elbow in the kitchen. Though he was still bewildered, his grip was firm.
He spun me around to look at him, and I could see in his face that he had no intention of letting me leave.
I could think of only one way to escape, and it involved hurting him so much that I hated myself for even
considering it. But I had no time, and I had to keep him safe.
I glared up at my father, fresh tears in my eyes for what I was about to do.
"I do like him — that's the problem. I can't do this anymore! I can't put down any more roots here! I
don't want to end up trapped in this stupid, boring town like Mom! I'm not going to make the same dumb
mistake she did. I hate it — I can't stay here another minute!"
His hand dropped from my arm like I'd electrocuted him. I turned away from his shocked, wounded face
and headed for the door.
"Bells, you can't leave now. It's nighttime," he whispered behind me.
I didn't turn around. "I'll sleep in the truck if I get tired."
"Just wait another week," he pled, still shell-shocked. "Renée will be back by then."
This completely derailed me. "What?"
Charlie continued eagerly, almost babbling with relief as I hesitated. "She called while you were out.
Things aren't going so well in Florida, and if Phil doesn't get signed by the end of the week, they're going
back to Arizona. The assistant coach of the Sidewinders said they might have a spot for another
shortstop."
I shook my head, trying to reassemble my now-confused thoughts. Every passing second put Charlie in
more danger.
"I have a key," I muttered, turning the knob. He was too close, one hand extended toward me, his face
dazed. I couldn't lose any more time arguing with him. I was going to have to hurt him further.
"Just let me go, Charlie." I repeated my mother's last words as she'd walked out this same door so many
years ago. I said them as angrily as I could manage, and I threw the door open. "It didn't work out,
okay? I really, really hate Forks!"
My cruel words did their job — Charlie stayed frozen on the doorstep, stunned, while I ran into the
night. I was hideously frightened of the empty yard. I ran wildly for the truck, visualizing a dark shadow
behind me. I threw my bag in the bed and wrenched the door open. The key was waiting in the ignition.
"I'll call you tomorrow!" I yelled, wishing more than anything that I could explain everything to him right
then, knowing I would never be able to. I gunned the engine and peeled out.
Edward reached for my hand.
"Pull over," he said as the house, and Charlie, disappeared behind us.
"I can drive," I said through the tears pouring down my cheeks.His long hands unexpectedly gripped my waist, and his foot pushed mine off the gas pedal. He pulled me
across his lap, wrenching my hands free of the wheel, and suddenly he was in the driver's seat. The truck
didn't swerve an inch.
"You wouldn't be able to find the house," he explained.
Lights flared suddenly behind us. I stared out the back window, eyes wide with horror.
"It's just Alice," he reassured me. He took my hand again.
My mind was filled with the image of Charlie in the doorway. "The tracker?"
"He heard the end of your performance," Edward said grimly.
"Charlie?" I asked in dread.
"The tracker followed us. He's running behind us now."
My body went cold.
"Can we outrun him?"
"No." But he sped up as he spoke. The truck's engine whined in protest.
My plan suddenly didn't feel so brilliant anymore.
I was staring back at Alice's headlights when the truck shuddered and a dark shadow sprung up outside
the window.
My bloodcurdling scream lasted a fraction of a second before Edward's hand clamped down on my
mouth.
"It's Emmett!"
He released my mouth, and wound his arm around my waist.
"It's okay, Bella," he promised. "You're going to be safe."
We raced through the quiet town toward the north highway.
"I didn't realize you were still so bored with small-town life," he said conversationally, and I knew he was
trying to distract me. "It seemed like you were adjusting fairly well — especially recently. Maybe I was
just flattering myself that I was making life more interesting for you."
"I wasn't being nice," I confessed, ignoring his attempt at diversion, looking down at my knees. "That was
the same thing my mom said when she left him. You could say I was hitting below the belt."
"Don't worry. He'll forgive you." He smiled a little, though it didn't touch his eyes.
I stared at him desperately, and he saw the naked panic in my eyes.
"Bella, it's going to be all right."
"But it won't be all right when I'm not with you," I whispered.
"We'll be together again in a few days," he said, tightening his arm around me. "Don't forget that this wasyour idea."
"It was the best idea — of course it was mine."
His answering smile was bleak and disappeared immediately.
"Why did this happen?" I asked, my voice catching. "Why me?"
He stared blackly at the road ahead. "It's my fault — I was a fool to expose you like that." The rage in
his voice was directed internally.
"That's not what I meant," I insisted. "I was there, big deal. It didn't bother the other two. Why did this
James decide to kill met There're people all over the place, why me?"
He hesitated, thinking before he answered.
"I got a good look at his mind tonight," he began in a low voice. "I'm not sure if there's anything I could
have done to avoid this, once he saw you. It is partially your fault." His voice was wry. "If you didn't
smell so appallingly luscious, he might not have bothered. But when I defended you... well, that made it a
lot worse. He's not used to being thwarted, no matter how insignificant the object. He thinks of himself as
a hunter and nothing else. His existence is consumed with tracking, and a challenge is all he asks of life.
Suddenly we've presented him with a beautiful challenge — a large clan of strong fighters all bent on
protecting the one vulnerable element. You wouldn't believe how euphoric he is now. It's his favorite
game, and we've just made it his most exciting game ever." His tone was full of disgust.
He paused a moment.
"But if I had stood by, he would have killed you right then," he said with hopeless frustration.
"I thought... I didn't smell the same to the others... as I do to you," I said hesitantly.
"You don't. But that doesn't mean that you aren't still a temptation to every one of them. If you had
appealed to the tracker — or any of them — the same way you appeal to me, it would have meant a
fight right there."
I shuddered.
"I don't think I have any choice but to kill him now," he muttered. "Carlisle won't like it."
I could hear the tires cross the bridge, though I couldn't see the river in the dark. I knew we were getting
close. I had to ask him now.
"How can you kill a vampire?"
He glanced at me with unreadable eyes and his voice was suddenly harsh. "The only way to be sure is to
tear him to shreds, and then burn the pieces."
"And the other two will fight with him?"
"The woman will. I'm not sure about Laurent. They don't have a very strong bond — he's only with them
for convenience. He was embarrassed by James in the meadow..."
"But James and the woman — they'll try to kill you?" I asked, my voice raw.
"Bella, don't you dare waste time worrying about me. Your only concern is keeping yourself safe and —please, please — trying not to be reckless."
"Is he still following?"
"Yes. He won't attack the house, though. Not tonight."
He turned off onto the invisible drive, with Alice following behind.
We drove right up to the house. The lights inside were bright, but they did little to alleviate the blackness
of the encroaching forest. Emmett had my door open before the truck was stopped; he pulled me out of
the seat, tucked me like a football into his vast chest, and ran me through the door.
We burst into the large white room, Edward and Alice at our sides. All of them were there; they were
already on their feet at the sound of our approach. Laurent stood in their midst. I could hear low growls
rumble deep in Emmett's throat as he set me down next to Edward.
"He's tracking us," Edward announced, glaring balefully at Laurent.
Laurent's face was unhappy. "I was afraid of that."
Alice danced to Jasper's side and whispered in his ear; her lips quivered with the speed of her silent
speech. They flew up the stairs together. Rosalie watched them, and then moved quickly to Emmett's
side. Her beautiful eyes were intense and — when they flickered unwillingly to my face — furious.
"What will he do?" Carlisle asked Laurent in chilling tones.
"I'm sorry," he answered. "I was afraid, when your boy there defended her, that it would set him off."
"Can you stop him?"
Laurent shook his head. "Nothing stops James when he gets started."
"We'll stop him," Emmett promised. There was no doubt what he meant.
"You can't bring him down. I've never seen anything like him in my three hundred years. He's absolutely
lethal. That's why I joined his coven."
His coven, I thought, of course. The show of leadership in the clearing was merely that, a show.
Laurent was shaking his head. He glanced at me, perplexed, and back to Carlisle. "Are you sure it's
worth it?"
Edward's enraged roar filled the room; Laurent cringed back.
Carlisle looked gravely at Laurent. "I'm afraid you're going to have to make a choice."
Laurent understood. He deliberated for a moment. His eyes took in every face, and finally swept the
bright room.
"I'm intrigued by the life you've created here. But I won't get in the middle of this. I bear none of you any
enmity, but I won't go up against James. I think I will head north — to that clan in Denali." He hesitated.
"Don't underestimate James. He's got a brilliant mind and unparalleled senses. He's every bit as
comfortable in the human world as you seem to be, and he won't come at you head on... I'm sorry for
what's been unleashed here. Truly sorry." He bowed his head, but I saw him flicker another puzzled look
at me."Go in peace," was Carlisle's formal answer.
Laurent took another long look around himself, and then he hurried out the door.
The silence lasted less than a second.
"How close?" Carlisle looked to Edward.
Esme was already moving; her hand touched an inconspicuous keypad on the wall, and with a groan,
huge metal shutters began sealing up the glass wall. I gaped.
"About three miles out past the river; he's circling around to meet up with the female."
"What's the plan?"
"We'll lead him off, and then Jasper and Alice will run her south."
"And then?"
Edward's tone was deadly. "As soon as Bella is clear, we hunt him."
"I guess there's no other choice," Carlisle agreed, his face grim.
Edward turned to Rosalie.
"Get her upstairs and trade clothes," Edward commanded. She stared back at him with livid disbelief.
"Why should I?" she hissed. "What is she to me? Except a menace — a danger you've chosen to inflict
on all of us."
I flinched back from the venom in her voice.
"Rose..." Emmett murmured, putting one hand on her shoulder. She shook it off.
But I was watching Edward carefully, knowing his temper, worried about his reaction.
He surprised me. He looked away from Rosalie as if she hadn't spoken, as if she didn't exist.
"Esme?" he asked calmly.
"Of course," Esme murmured.
Esme was at my side in half a heartbeat, swinging me up easily into her arms, and dashing up the stairs
before I could gasp in shock.
"What are we doing?" I asked breathlessly as she set me down in a dark room somewhere off the
second-story hall.
"Trying to confuse the smell. It won't work for long, but it might help get you out." I could hear her
clothes falling to the floor.
"I don't think I'll fit..." I hesitated, but her hands were abruptly pulling my shirt over my head. I quickly
stripped my jeans off myself. She handed me something, it felt like a shirt. I struggled to get my arms
through the right holes. As soon as I was done she handed me her slacks. I yanked them on, but I
couldn't get my feet out; they were too long. She deftly rolled the hems a few times so I could stand.
Somehow she was already in my clothes. She pulled me back to the stairs, where Alice stood, a smallleather bag in one hand. They each grabbed one of my elbows and half-carried me as they flew down the
stairs.
It appeared that everything had been settled downstairs in our absence. Edward and Emmett were ready
to leave, Emmett carrying a heavy-looking backpack over his shoulder. Carlisle was handing something
small to Esme. He turned and handed Alice the same thing — it was a tiny silver cell phone.
"Esme and Rosalie will be taking your truck, Bella," he told me as he passed. I nodded, glancing warily at
Rosalie. She was glowering at Carlisle with a resentful expression.
"Alice, Jasper — take the Mercedes. You'll need the dark tint in the south."
They nodded as well.
"We're taking the Jeep."
I was surprised to see that Carlisle intended to go with Edward. I realized suddenly, with a stab of fear,
that they made up the hunting party.
"Alice," Carlisle asked, "will they take the bait?"
Everyone watched Alice as she closed her eyes and became incredibly still.
Finally her eyes opened. "He'll track you. The woman will follow the truck. We should be able to leave
after that." Her voice was certain.
"Let's go." Carlisle began to walk toward the kitchen.
But Edward was at my side at once. He caught me up in his iron grip, crushing me to him. He seemed
unaware of his watching family as he pulled my face to his, lifting my feet off the floor. For the shortest
second, his lips were icy and hard against mine. Then it was over. He set me down, still holding my face,
his glorious eyes burning into mine.
His eyes went blank, curiously dead, as he turned away.
And they were gone.
We stood there, the others looking away from me as the tears streaked noiselessly down my face.
The silent moment dragged on, and then Esme's phone vibrated in her hand. It flashed to her ear.
"Now," she said. Rosalie stalked out the front door without another glance in my direction, but Esme
touched my cheek as she passed.
"Be safe." Her whisper lingered behind them as they slipped out the door. I heard my truck start
thunderously, and then fade away.
Jasper and Alice waited. Alice's phone seemed to be at her ear before it buzzed.
"Edward says the woman is on Esme's trail. I'll get the car." She vanished into the shadows the way
Edward had gone.
Jasper and I looked at each other. He stood across the length of the entryway from me... being careful.
"You're wrong, you know," he said quietly."What?" I gasped.
"I can feel what you're feeling now — and you are worth it."
"I'm not," I mumbled. "If anything happens to them, it will be for nothing."
"You're wrong," he repeated, smiling kindly at me.
I heard nothing, but then Alice stepped through the front door and came toward me with her arms held
out.
"May I?" she asked.
"You're the first one to ask permission." I smiled wryly.
She lifted me in her slender arms as easily as Emmett had, shielding me protectively, and then we flew out
the door, leaving the lights bright behind us.
20. IMPATIENCE
When I woke up I was confused. My thoughts were hazy, still twisted up in dreams and nightmares; it
took me longer than it should have to realize where I was.
This room was too bland to belong anywhere but in a hotel. The bedside lamps, bolted to the tables,
were a dead giveaway, as were the long drapes made from the same fabric as the bedspread, and the
generic watercolor prints on the walls.
I tried to remember how I got here, but nothing came at first.
I did remember the sleek black car, the glass in the windows darker than that on a limousine. The engine
was almost silent, though we'd raced across the black freeways at more than twice the legal speed.
And I remembered Alice sitting with me on the dark leather backseat. Somehow, during the long night,
my head had ended up against her granite neck. My closeness didn't seem to bother her at all, and her
cool, hard skin was oddly comforting to me. The front of her thin cotton shirt was cold, damp with the
tears that streamed from my eyes until, red and sore, they ran dry.
Sleep had evaded me; my aching eyes strained open even though the night finally ended and dawn broke
over a low peak somewhere in California. The gray light, streaking across the cloudless sky, stung my
eyes. But I couldn't close them; when I did, the images that flashed all too vividly, like still slides behind
my lids, were unbearable. Charlie's broken expression — Edward's brutal snarl, teeth bared — Rosalie's
resentful glare — the keen-eyed scrutiny of the tracker — the dead look in Edward's eyes after he
kissed me the last time... I couldn't stand to see them. So I fought against my weariness and the sun rose
higher.
I was still awake when we came through a shallow mountain pass and the sun, behind us now, reflected
off the tiled rooftops of the Valley of the Sun. I didn't have enough emotion left to be surprised that we'd
made a three-day journey in one. I stared blankly at the wide, flat expanse laid out in front of me.
Phoenix — the palm trees, the scrubby creosote, the haphazard lines of the intersecting freeways, the
green swaths of golf courses and turquoise splotches of swimming pools, all submerged in a thin smog
and embraced by the short, rocky ridges that weren't really big enough to be called mountains.The shadows of the palm trees slanted across the freeway — defined, sharper than I remembered, paler
than they should be. Nothing could hide in these shadows. The bright, open freeway seemed benign
enough. But I felt no relief, no sense of homecoming.
"Which way to the airport, Bella?" Jasper had asked, and I flinched, though his voice was quite soft and
un-alarming. It was the first sound, besides the purr of the car, to break the long night's silence.
"Stay on the I-ten," I'd answered automatically. "We'll pass right by it."
My brain had worked slowly through the fog of sleep deprivation.
"Are we flying somewhere?" I'd asked Alice.
"No, but it's better to be close, just in case."
I remembered beginning the loop around Sky Harbor International... but not ending it. I suppose that
must have been when I'd fallen asleep.
Though, now that I'd chased the memories down, I did have a vague impression of leaving the car — the
sun was just falling behind the horizon — my arm draped over Alice's shoulder and her arm firm around
my waist, dragging me along as I stumbled through the warm, dry shadows.
I had no memory of this room.
I looked at the digital clock on the nightstand. The red numbers claimed it was three o'clock, but they
gave no indication if it was night or day. No edge of light escaped the thick curtains, but the room was
bright with the light from the lamps.
I rose stiffly and staggered to the window, pulling back the drapes.
It was dark outside. Three in the morning, then. My room looked out on a deserted section of the
freeway and the new long-term parking garage for the airport. It was slightly comforting to be able to
pinpoint time and place.
I looked down at myself. I was still wearing Esme's clothes, and they didn't fit very well at all. I looked
around the room, glad when I discovered my duffel bag on top of the low dresser.
I was on my way to find new clothes when a light tap on the door made me jump.
"Can I come in?" Alice asked.
I took a deep breath. "Sure."
She walked in, and looked me over cautiously. "You look like you could sleep longer," she said.
I just shook my head.
She drifted silently to the curtains and closed them securely before turning back to me.
"We'll need to stay inside," she told me.
"Okay." My voice was hoarse; it cracked.
"Thirsty?" she asked.
I shrugged. "I'm okay. How about you?""Nothing unmanageable." She smiled. "I ordered some food for you, it's in the front room. Edward
reminded me that you have to eat a lot more frequently than we do."
I was instantly more alert. "He called?"
"No," she said, and watched as my face fell. "It was before we left."
She took my hand carefully and led me through the door into the living room of the hotel suite. I could
hear a low buzz of voices coming from the TV. Jasper sat motionlessly at the desk in the corner, his eyes
watching the news with no glimmer of interest.
I sat on the floor next to the coffee table, where a tray of food waited, and began picking at it without
noticing what I was eating.
Alice perched on the arm of the sofa and stared blankly at the TV like Jasper.
I ate slowly, watching her, turning now and then to glance quickly at Jasper. It began to dawn on me that
they were too still. They never looked away from the screen, though commercials were playing now. I
pushed the tray away, my stomach abruptly uneasy. Alice looked down at me.
"What's wrong, Alice?" I asked.
"Nothing's wrong." Her eyes were wide, honest... and I didn't trust them.
"What do we do now?"
"We wait for Carlisle to call."
"And should he have called by now?" I could see that I was near the mark. Alice's eyes flitted from mine
to the phone on top of her leather bag and back.
"What does that mean?" My voice quavered, and I fought to control it. "That he hasn't called yet?"
"It just means that they don't have anything to tell us."
But her voice was too even, and the air was harder to breathe.
Jasper was suddenly beside Alice, closer to me than usual.
"Bella," he said in a suspiciously soothing voice. "You have nothing to worry about. You are completely
safe here."
"I know that."
"Then why are you frightened?" he asked, confused. He might feel the tenor of my emotions, but he
couldn't read the reasons behind them.
"You heard what Laurent said." My voice was just a whisper, but I was sure they could hear me. "He
said James was lethal. What if something goes wrong, and they get separated? If something happens to
any of them, Carlisle, Emmett... Edward..." I gulped. "If that wild female hurts Esme..." My voice had
grown higher, a note of hysteria beginning to rise in it. "How could I live with myself when it's my fault?
None of you should be risking yourselves for me —"
"Bella, Bella, stop," he interrupted me, his words pouring out so quickly they were hard to understand.
"You're worrying about all the wrong things, Bella. Trust me on this — none of us are in jeopardy. Youare under too much strain as it is; don't add to it with wholly unnecessary worries. Listen to me!" he
ordered, for I had looked away. "Our family is strong. Our only fear is losing you."
"But why should you —"
Alice interrupted this time, touching my cheek with her cold fingers. "It's been almost a century that
Edward's been alone. Now he's found you. You can't see the changes that we see, we who have been
with him for so long. Do you think any of us want to look into his eyes for the next hundred years if he
loses you?"
My guilt slowly subsided as I looked into her dark eyes. But, even as the calm spread over me, I knew I
couldn't trust my feelings with Jasper there.
It was a very long day.
We stayed in the room. Alice called down to the front desk and asked them to ignore our maid service
for now. The windows stayed shut, the TV on, though no one watched it. At regular intervals, food was
delivered for me. The silver phone resting on Alice's bag seemed to grow bigger as the hours passed.
My babysitters handled the suspense better than I did. As I fidgeted and paced, they simply grew more
still, two statues whose eyes followed me imperceptibly as I moved. I occupied myself with memorizing
the room; the striped pattern of the couches, tan, peach, cream, dull gold, and tan again. Sometimes I
stared at the abstract prints, randomly finding pictures in the shapes, like I'd found pictures in the clouds
as a child. I traced a blue hand, a woman combing her hair, a cat stretching. But when the pale red circle
became a staring eye, I looked away.
As the afternoon wore on, I went back to bed, simply for something to do. I hoped that by myself in the
dark, I could give in to the terrible fears that hovered on the edge of my consciousness, unable to break
through under Jasper's careful supervision.
But Alice followed me casually, as if by some coincidence she had grown tired of the front room at the
same time. I was beginning to wonder exactly what sort of instructions Edward had given her. I lay
across the bed, and she sat, legs folded, next to me. I ignored her at first, suddenly tired enough to sleep.
But after a few minutes, the panic that had held off in Jasper's presence began to make itself known. I
gave up on the idea of sleep quickly then, curling up into a small ball, wrapping my arms around my legs.
"Alice?" I asked.
"Yes?"
I kept my voice very calm. "What do you think they're doing?"
"Carlisle wanted to lead the tracker as far north as possible, wait for him to get close, and then turn and
ambush him. Esme and Rosalie were supposed to head west as long as they could keep the female
behind them. If she turned around, they were to head back to Forks and keep an eye on your dad. So I
imagine things are going well if they can't call. It means the tracker is close enough that they don't want
him to overhear."
"And Esme?"
"I think she must be back in Forks. She won't call if there's any chance the female will overhear. I expect
they're all just being very careful."
"Do you think they're safe, really?""Bella, how many times do we have to tell you that there's no danger to us?"
"Would you tell me the truth, though?"
"Yes. I will always tell you the truth." Her voice was earnest.
I deliberated for a moment, and decided she meant it.
"Tell me then... how do you become a vampire?"
My question caught her off guard. She was quiet. I rolled over to look at her, and her expression seemed
ambivalent.
"Edward doesn't want me to tell you that," she said firmly, but I sensed she didn't agree.
"That's not fair. I think I have a right to know."
"I know."
I looked at her, waiting.
She sighed. "He'll be extremely angry."
"It's none of his business. This is between you and me. Alice, as a friend, I'm begging you." And we were
friends now, somehow — as she must have known we would be all along.
She looked at me with her splendid, wise eyes... choosing.
"I'll tell you the mechanics of it," she said finally, "but I don't remember it myself, and I've never done it or
seen it done, so keep in mind that I can only tell you the theory."
I waited.
"As predators, we have a glut of weapons in our physical arsenal — much, much more than really
necessary. The strength, the speed, the acute senses, not to mention those of us like Edward, Jasper, and
I, who have extra senses as well. And then, like a carnivorous flower, we are physically attractive to our
prey."
I was very still, remembering how pointedly Edward had demonstrated the same concept for me in the
meadow.
She smiled a wide, ominous smile. "We have another fairly superfluous weapon. We're also venomous,"
she said, her teeth glistening. "The venom doesn't kill — it's merely incapacitating. It works slowly,
spreading through the bloodstream, so that, once bitten, our prey is in too much physical pain to escape
us. Mostly superfluous, as I said. If we're that close, the prey doesn't escape. Of course, there are
always exceptions. Carlisle, for example."
"So... if the venom is left to spread..." I murmured.
"It takes a few days for the transformation to be complete, depending on how much venom is in the
bloodstream, how close the venom enters to the heart. As long as the heart keeps beating, the poison
spreads, healing, changing the body as it moves through it. Eventually the heart stops, and the conversion
is finished. But all that time, every minute of it, a victim would be wishing for death."
I shivered."It's not pleasant, you see."
"Edward said that it was very hard to do... I don't quite understand," I said.
"We're also like sharks in a way. Once we taste the blood, or even smell it for that matter, it becomes
very hard to keep from feeding. Sometimes impossible. So you see, to actually bite someone, to taste the
blood, it would begin the frenzy. It's difficult on both sides — the blood-lust on the one hand, the awful
pain on the other."
"Why do you think you don't remember?"
"I don't know. For everyone else, the pain of transformation is the sharpest memory they have of their
human life. I remember nothing of being human." Her voice was wistful.
We lay silently, wrapped in our individual meditations.
The seconds ticked by, and I had almost forgotten her presence, I was so enveloped in my thoughts.
Then, without any warning, Alice leaped from the bed, landing lightly on her feet. My head jerked up as I
stared at her, startled.
"Something's changed." Her voice was urgent, and she wasn't talking to me anymore.
She reached the door at the same time Jasper did. He had obviously heard our conversation and her
sudden exclamation. He put his hands on her shoulders and guided her back to the bed, sitting her on the
edge.
"What do you see?" he asked intently, staring into her eyes. Her eyes were focused on something very far
away. I sat close to her, leaning in to catch her low, quick voice.
"I see a room. It's long, and there are mirrors everywhere. The floor is wooden. He's in the room, and
he's waiting. There's gold... a gold stripe across the mirrors."
"Where is the room?"
"I don't know. Something is missing — another decision hasn't been made yet."
"How much time?"
"It's soon. He'll be in the mirror room today, or maybe tomorrow. It all depends. He's waiting for
something. And he's in the dark now."
Jasper's voice was calm, methodical, as he questioned her in a practiced way. "What is he doing?"
"He's watching TV... no, he's running a VCR, in the dark, in another place."
"Can you see where he is?"
"No, it's too dark."
"And the mirror room, what else is there?"
"Just the mirrors, and the gold. It's a band, around the room. And there's a black table with a big stereo,
and a TV. He's touching the VCR there, but he doesn't watch the way he does in the dark room. This is
the room where he waits." Her eyes drifted, then focused on Jasper's face."There's nothing else?"
She shook her head. They looked at each other, motionless.
"What does it mean?" I asked.
Neither of them answered for a moment, then Jasper looked at me.
"It means the tracker's plans have changed. He's made a decision that will lead him to the mirror room,
and the dark room."
"But we don't know where those rooms are?"
"No."
"But we do know that he won't be in the mountains north of Washington, being hunted. He'll elude them."
Alice's voice was bleak.
"Should we call?" I asked. They traded a serious look, undecided.
And the phone rang.
Alice was across the room before I could lift my head to look at it.
She pushed a button and held the phone to her ear, but she didn't speak first.
"Carlisle," she breathed. She didn't seem surprised or relieved, the way I felt.
"Yes," she said, glancing at me. She listened for a long moment.
"I just saw him." She described again the vision she'd seen. "Whatever made him get on that plane... it
was leading him to those rooms." She paused. "Yes," Alice said into the phone, and then she spoke to
me. "Bella?"
She held the phone out toward me. I ran to it.
"Hello?" I breathed.
"Bella," Edward said.
"Oh, Edward! I was so worried."
"Bella," he sighed in frustration, "I told you not to worry about anything but yourself." It was so
unbelievably good to hear his voice. I felt the hovering cloud of despair lighten and drift back as he
spoke.
"Where are you?"
"We're outside of Vancouver. Bella, I'm sorry — we lost him. He seems suspicious of us — he's careful
to stay just far enough away that I can't hear what he's thinking. But he's gone now — it looks like he got
on a plane. We think he's heading back to Forks to start over." I could hear Alice filling in Jasper behind
me, her quick words blurring together into a humming noise.
"I know. Alice saw that he got away."
"You don't have to worry, though. He won't find anything to lead him to you. You just have to stay thereand wait till we find him again."
"I'll be fine. Is Esme with Charlie?"
"Yes — the female has been in town. She went to the house, but while Charlie was at work. She hasn't
gone near him, so don't be afraid. He's safe with Esme and Rosalie watching."
"What is she doing?"
"Probably trying to pick up the trail. She's been all through the town during the night. Rosalie traced her
through the airport, all the roads around town, the school... she's digging, Bella, but there's nothing to
find."
"And you're sure Charlie's safe?"
"Yes, Esme won't let him out of her sight. And we'll be there soon. If the tracker gets anywhere near
Forks, we'll have him."
"I miss you," I whispered.
"I know, Bella. Believe me, I know. It's like you've taken half my self away with you."
"Come and get it, then," I challenged.
"Soon, as soon as I possibly can. I will make you safe first." His voice was hard.
"I love you," I reminded him.
"Could you believe that, despite everything I've put you through, I love you, too?"
"Yes, I can, actually."
"I'll come for you soon."
"I'll be waiting."
As soon as the phone went dead, the cloud of depression began to creep over me again.
I turned to give the phone back to Alice and found her and Jasper bent over the table, where Alice was
sketching on a piece of hotel stationery. I leaned on the back of the couch, looking over her shoulder.
She drew a room: long, rectangular, with a thinner, square section at the back. The wooden planks that
made up the floor stretched lengthwise across the room. Down the walls were lines denoting the breaks
in the mirrors. And then, wrapping around the walls, waist high, a long band. The band Alice said was
gold.
"It's a ballet studio," I said, suddenly recognizing the familiar shapes.
They looked at me, surprised.
"Do you know this room?" Jasper's voice sounded calm, but there was an undercurrent of something I
couldn't identify. Alice bent her head to her work, her hand flying across the page now, the shape of an
emergency exit taking shape against the back wall, the stereo and TV on a low table by the front right
corner.
"It looks like a place I used to go for dance lessons — when I was eight or nine. It was shaped just thesame." I touched the page where the square section jutted out, narrowing the back part of the room.
"That's where the bathrooms were — the doors were through the other dance floor. But the stereo was
here" — I pointed to the left corner — "it was older, and there wasn't a TV. There was a window in the
waiting room — you would see the room from this perspective if you looked through it."
Alice and Jasper were staring at me.
"Are you sure it's the same room?" Jasper asked, still calm.
"No, not at all — I suppose most dance studios would look the same — the mirrors, the bar." I traced
my finger along the ballet bar set against the mirrors. "It's just the shape that looked familiar." I touched
the door, set in exactly the same place as the one I remembered.
"Would you have any reason to go there now?" Alice asked, breaking my reverie.
"No, I haven't been there in almost ten years. I was a terrible dancer — they always put me in the back
for recitals," I admitted.
"So there's no way it could be connected with you?" Alice asked intently.
"No, I don't even think the same person owns it. I'm sure it's just another dance studio, somewhere."
"Where was the studio you went to?" Jasper asked in a casual voice.
"It was just around the corner from my mom's house. I used to walk there after school..." I said, my
voice trailing off. I didn't miss the look they exchanged.
"Here in Phoenix, then?" His voice was still casual.
"Yes," I whispered. "Fifty-eighth Street and Cactus."
We all sat in silence, staring at the drawing.
"Alice, is that phone safe?"
"Yes," she reassured me. "The number would just trace back to Washington."
"Then I can use it to call my mom."
"I thought she was in Florida."
"She is — but she's coming home soon, and she can't come back to that house while..." My voice
trembled. I was thinking about something Edward had said, about the red-haired female at Charlie's
house, at the school, where my records would be.
"How will you reach her?"
"They don't have a permanent number except at the house — she's supposed to check her messages
regularly."
"Jasper?" Alice asked.
He thought about it. "I don't think there's any way it could hurt — be sure you don't say where you are,
of course."
I reached eagerly for the phone and dialed the familiar number. It rang four times, and then I heard mymom's breezy voice telling me to leave a message.
"Mom," I said after the beep, "it's me. Listen, I need you to do something. It's important. As soon as you
get this message, call me at this number." Alice was already at my side, writing the number for me on the
bottom of her picture. I read it carefully, twice. "Please don't go anywhere until you talk to me. Don't
worry, I'm okay, but I have to talk to you right away, no matter how late you get this call, all right? I love
you, Mom. Bye." I closed my eyes and prayed with all my might that no unforeseen change of plans
would bring her home before she got my message.
I settled into the sofa, nibbling on a plate of leftover fruit, anticipating a long evening. I thought about
calling Charlie, but I wasn't sure if I should be home by now or not. I concentrated on the news, watching
out for stories about Florida, or about spring training — strikes or hurricanes or terrorist attacks —
anything that might send them home early.
Immortality must grant endless patience. Neither Jasper nor Alice seemed to feel the need to do anything
at all. For a while, Alice sketched the vague outline of the dark room from her vision, as much as she
could see in the light from the TV. But when she was done, she simply sat, looking at the blank walls with
her timeless eyes. Jasper, too, seemed to have no urge to pace, or peek through the curtains, or run
screaming out the door, the way I did.
I must have fallen asleep on the couch, waiting for the phone to ring again. The touch of Alice's cold
hands woke me briefly as she carried me to the bed, but I was unconscious again before my head hit the
pillow.
21. PHONE CALL
I could feel it was too early again when I woke, and I knew I was getting the schedule of my days and
nights slowly reversed. I lay in my bed and listened to the quiet voices of Alice and Jasper in the other
room. That they were loud enough for me to hear at all was strange. I rolled till my feet touched the floor
and then staggered to the living room.
The clock on the TV said it was just after two in the morning. Alice and Jasper were sitting together on
the sofa, Alice sketching again while Jasper looked over her shoulder. They didn't look up when I
entered, too engrossed in Alice's work.
I crept to Jasper's side to peek.
"Did she see something more?" I asked him quietly.
"Yes. Something's brought him back to the room with the VCR, but it's light now."
I watched as Alice drew a square room with dark beams across its low ceiling. The walls were paneled
in wood, a little too dark, out of date. The floor had a dark carpet with a pattern in it. There was a large
window against the south wall, and an opening through the west wall led to the living room. One side of
that entrance was stone — a large tan stone fireplace that was open to both rooms. The focus of the
room from this perspective, the TV and VCR, balanced on a too-small wooden stand, were in the
southwest corner of the room. An aged sectional sofa curved around in front of the TV, a round coffee
table in front of it.
"The phone goes there," I whispered, pointing.Two pairs of eternal eyes stared at me.
"That's my mother's house."
Alice was already off the couch, phone in hand, dialing. I stared at the precise rendering of my mother's
family room. Uncharacteristically, Jasper slid closer to me. He lightly touched his hand to my shoulder,
and the physical contact seemed to make his calming influence stronger. The panic stayed dull,
unfocused.
Alice's lips were trembling with the speed of her words, the low buzzing impossible to decipher. I
couldn't concentrate.
"Bella," Alice said. I looked at her numbly.
"Bella, Edward is coming to get you. He and Emmett and Carlisle are going to take you somewhere, to
hide you for a while."
"Edward is coming?" The words were like a life vest, holding my head above the flood.
"Yes, he's catching the first flight out of Seattle. We'll meet him at the airport, and you'll leave with him."
"But, my mother... he came here for my mother, Alice!" Despite Jasper, the hysteria bubbled up in my
voice.
"Jasper and I will stay till she's safe."
"I can't win, Alice. You can't guard everyone I know forever. Don't you see what he's doing? He's not
tracking me at all. He'll find someone, he'll hurt someone I love... Alice, I can't —"
"We'll catch him, Bella," she assured me.
"And what if you get hurt, Alice? Do you think that's okay with me? Do you think it's only my human
family he can hurt me with?"
Alice looked meaningfully at Jasper. A deep, heavy fog of lethargy washed over me, and my eyes closed
without my permission. My mind struggled against the fog, realizing what was happening. I forced my
eyes open and stood up, stepping away from Jasper's hand.
"I don't want to go back to sleep," I snapped.
I walked to my room and shut the door, slammed it really, so I could be free to go to pieces privately.
This time Alice didn't follow me. For three and a half hours I stared at the wall, curled in a ball, rocking.
My mind went around in circles, trying to come up with some way out of this nightmare. There was no
escape, no reprieve. I could see only one possible end looming darkly in my future. The only question
was how many other people would be hurt before I reached it.
The only solace, the only hope I had left, was knowing that I would see Edward soon. Maybe, if I could
just see his face again, I would also be able to see the solution that eluded me now.
When the phone rang, I returned to the front room, a little ashamed of my behavior. I hoped I hadn't
offended either of them, that they would know how grateful I was for the sacrifices they were making on
my account.
Alice was talking as rapidly as ever, but what caught my attention was that, for the first time, Jasper was
not in the room. I looked at the clock — it was five-thirty in the morning."They're just boarding their plane," Alice told me. "They'll land at nine-forty-five." Just a few more hours
to keep breathing till he was here.
"Where's Jasper?"
"He went to check out."
"You aren't staying here?"
"No, we're relocating closer to your mother's house."
My stomach twisted uneasily at her words.
But the phone rang again, distracting me. She looked surprised, but I was already walking forward,
reaching hopefully for the phone.
"Hello?" Alice asked. "No, she's right here." She held the phone out to me. Your mother, she mouthed.
"Hello?"
"Bella? Bella?" It was my mother's voice, in a familiar tone I had heard a thousand times in my childhood,
anytime I'd gotten too close to the edge of the sidewalk or strayed out of her sight in a crowded place. It
was the sound of panic.
I sighed. I'd been expecting this, though I'd tried to make my message as unalarming as possible without
lessening the urgency of it.
"Calm down, Mom," I said in my most soothing voice, walking slowly away from Alice. I wasn't sure if I
could lie as convincingly with her eyes on me. "Everything is fine, okay? Just give me a minute and I'll
explain everything, I promise."
I paused, surprised that she hadn't interrupted me yet.
"Mom?"
"Be very careful not to say anything until I tell you to." The voice I heard now was as unfamiliar as it was
unexpected. It was a man's tenor voice, a very pleasant, generic voice — the kind of voice that you
heard in the background of luxury car commercials. He spoke very quickly.
"Now, I don't need to hurt your mother, so please do exactly as I say, and she'll be fine." He paused for
a minute while I listened in mute horror. "That's very good," he congratulated. "Now repeat after me, and
do try to sound natural. Please say, 'No, Mom, stay where you are.'"
"No, Mom, stay where you are." My voice was barely more than a whisper.
"I can see this is going to be difficult." The voice was amused, still light and friendly. "Why don't you walk
into another room now so your face doesn't ruin everything? There's no reason for your mother to suffer.
As you're walking, please say, 'Mom, please listen to me.' Say it now."
"Mom, please listen to me," my voice pleaded. I walked very slowly to the bedroom, feeling Alice's
worried stare on my back. I shut the door behind me, trying to think clearly through the terror that
gripped my brain.
"There now, are you alone? Just answer yes or no.""Yes."
"But they can still hear you, I'm sure."
"Yes."
"All right, then," the agreeable voice continued, "say, 'Mom, trust me.'"
"Mom, trust me."
"This worked out rather better than I expected. I was prepared to wait, but your mother arrived ahead of
schedule. It's easier this way, isn't it? Less suspense, less anxiety for you."
I waited.
"Now I want you to listen very carefully. I'm going to need you to get away from your friends; do you
think you can do that? Answer yes or no."
"No."
"I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you would be a little more creative than that. Do you think you could
get away from them if your mother's life depended on it? Answer yes or no."
Somehow, there had to be a way. I remembered that we were going to the airport. Sky Harbor
International Airport: crowded, confusingly laid out...
"Yes."
"That's better. I'm sure it won't be easy, but if I get the slightest hint that you have any company, well, that
would be very bad for your mother," the friendly voice promised. "You must know enough about us by
now to realize how quickly I would know if you tried to bring anyone along with you. And how little time
I would need to deal with your mother if that was the case. Do you understand? Answer yes or no."
"Yes." My voice broke.
"Very good, Bella. Now this is what you have to do. I want you to go to your mother's house. Next to
the phone there will be a number. Call it, and I'll tell you where to go from there." I already knew where I
would go, and where this would end. But I would follow his instructions exactly. "Can you do that?
Answer yes or no."
"Yes."
"Before noon, please, Bella. I haven't got all day," he said politely.
"Where's Phil?" I asked tersely.
"Ah, be careful now, Bella. Wait until I ask you to speak, please."
I waited.
"It's important, now, that you don't make your friends suspicious when you go back to them. Tell them
that your mother called, and that you talked her out of coming home for the time being. Now repeat after
me, 'Thank you, Mom.' Say it now."
"Thank you, Mom." The tears were coming. I tried to fight them back."Say, 'I love you, Mom, I'll see you soon.' Say it now."
"I love you, Mom." My voice was thick. "I'll see you soon," I promised.
"Goodbye, Bella. I look forward to seeing you again." He hung up.
I held the phone to my ear. My joints were frozen with terror — I couldn't unbend my fingers to drop it.
I knew I had to think, but my head was filled with the sound of my mother's panic. Seconds ticked by
while I fought for control.
Slowly, slowly, my thoughts started to break past that brick wall of pain. To plan. For I had no choices
now but one: to go to the mirrored room and die. I had no guarantees, nothing to give to keep my mother
alive. I could only hope that James would be satisfied with winning the game, that beating Edward would
be enough. Despair gripped me; there was no way to bargain, nothing I could offer or withhold that could
influence him. But I still had no choice. I had to try.
I pushed the terror back as well as I could. My decision was made. It did no good to waste time
agonizing over the outcome. I had to think clearly, because Alice and Jasper were waiting for me, and
evading them was absolutely essential, and absolutely impossible.
I was suddenly grateful that Jasper was gone. If he had been here to feel my anguish in the last five
minutes, how could I have kept them from being suspicious? I choked back the dread, the anxiety, tried
to stifle it. I couldn't afford it now. I didn't know when he would return.
I concentrated on my escape. I had to hope that my familiarity with the airport would turn the odds in my
favor. Somehow, I had to keep Alice away...
I knew Alice was in the other room waiting for me, curious. But I had to deal with one more thing in
private, before Jasper was back.
I had to accept that I wouldn't see Edward again, not even one last glimpse of his face to carry with me
to the mirror room. I was going to hurt him, and I couldn't say goodbye. I let the waves of torture wash
over me, have their way for a time. Then I pushed them back, too, and went to face Alice.
The only expression I could manage was a dull, dead look. I saw her alarm and I didn't wait for her to
ask. I had just one script and I'd never manage improvisation now.
"My mom was worried, she wanted to come home. But it's okay, I convinced her to stay away." My
voice was lifeless.
"We'll make sure she's fine, Bella, don't worry."
I turned away; I couldn't let her see my face.
My eye fell on a blank page of the hotel stationery on the desk. I went to it slowly, a plan forming. There
was an envelope there, too. That was good.
"Alice," I asked slowly, without turning, keeping my voice level. "If I write a letter for my mother, would
you give it to her? Leave it at the house, I mean."
"Sure, Bella." Her voice was careful. She could see me coming apart at the seams. I had to keep my
emotions under better control.
I went into the bedroom again, and knelt next to the little bedside table to write."Edward," I wrote. My hand was shaking, the letters were hardly legible.
I love you. I am so sorry. He has my mom, and I have to try. I know it may not work. I am so very,
very sorry.
Don't be angry with Alice and Jasper. If I get away from them it will be a miracle. Tell them thank
you for me. Alice especially, please.
And please, please, don't come after him. That's what he wants. I think. I can't bear it if anyone
has to be hurt because of me, especially you. Please, this is the only thing I can ask you now. For
me.
I love you. Forgive me.
Bella
I folded the letter carefully, and sealed it in the envelope. Eventually he would find it. I only hoped he
would understand, and listen to me just this once.
And then I carefully sealed away my heart.
22. HIDE-AND-SEEK
It had taken much less time than I'd thought — all the terror, the despair, the shattering of my heart. The
minutes were ticking by more slowly than usual. Jasper still hadn't come back when I returned to Alice. I
was afraid to be in the same room with her, afraid that she would guess... and afraid to hide from her for
the same reason.
I would have thought I was far beyond the ability to be surprised, my thoughts tortured and unstable, but
I was surprised when I saw Alice bent over the desk, gripping the edge with two hands.
"Alice?"
She didn't react when I called her name, but her head was slowly rocking side to side, and I saw her
face. Her eyes were blank, dazed... My thoughts flew to my mother. Was I already too late?
I hurried to her side, reaching out automatically to touch her hand.
"Alice!" Jasper's voice whipped, and then he was right behind her, his hands curling over hers, loosening
them from their grip on the table. Across the room, the door swung shut with a low click.
"What is it?" he demanded.
She turned her face away from me, into his chest. "Bella," she said.
"I'm right here," I replied.
Her head twisted around, her eyes locking on mine, their expression still strangely blank. I realized atonce that she hadn't been speaking to me, she'd been answering Jasper's question.
"What did you see?" I said — and there was no question in my flat, uncaring voice.
Jasper looked at me sharply. I kept my expression vacant and waited. His eyes were confused as they
flickered swiftly between Alice's face and mine, feeling the chaos... for I could guess what Alice had
seen now.
I felt a tranquil atmosphere settle around me. I welcomed it, using it to keep my emotions disciplined,
under control.
Alice, too, recovered herself.
"Nothing, really," she answered finally, her voice remarkably calm and convincing. "Just the same room
as before."
She finally looked at me, her expression smooth and withdrawn. "Did you want breakfast?"
"No, I'll eat at the airport." I was very calm, too. I went to the bathroom to shower. Almost as if I were
borrowing Jasper's strange extra sense, I could feel Alice's wild — though well-concealed —
desperation to have me out of the room, to be alone with Jasper. So she could tell him that they were
doing something wrong, that they were going to fail...
I got ready methodically, concentrating on each little task. I left my hair down, swirling around me,
covering my face. The peaceful mood Jasper created worked its way through me and helped me think
clearly. Helped me plan. I dug through my bag until I found my sock full of money. I emptied it into my
pocket.
I was anxious to get to the airport, and glad when we left by seven. I sat alone this time in the back of the
dark car. Alice leaned against the door, her face toward Jasper but, behind her sunglasses, shooting
glances in my direction every few seconds.
"Alice?" I asked indifferently.
She was wary. "Yes?"
"How does it work? The things that you see?" I stared out the side window, and my voice sounded
bored. "Edward said it wasn't definite... that things change?" It was harder than I would have thought to
say his name. That must have been what alerted Jasper, why a fresh wave of serenity filled the car.
"Yes, things change..." she murmured — hopefully, I thought. "Some things are more certain than
others... like the weather. People are harder. I only see the course they're on while they're on it. Once
they change their minds — make a new decision, no matter how small — the whole future shifts."
I nodded thoughtfully. "So you couldn't see James in Phoenix until he decided to come here."
"Yes," she agreed, wary again.
And she hadn't seen me in the mirror room with James until I'd made the decision to meet him there. I
tried not to think about what else she might have seen. I didn't want my panic to make Jasper more
suspicious. They would be watching me twice as carefully now, anyway, after Alice's vision. This was
going to be impossible.
We got to the airport. Luck was with me, or maybe it was just good odds. Edward's plane was landingin terminal four, the largest terminal, where most flights landed — so it wasn't surprising that his was. But
it was the terminal I needed: the biggest, the most confusing. And there was a door on level three that
might be the only chance.
We parked on the fourth floor of the huge garage. I led the way, for once more knowledgeable about my
surroundings than they were. We took the elevator down to level three, where the passengers unloaded.
Alice and Jasper spent a long time looking at the departing flights board. I could hear them discussing the
pros and cons of New York, Atlanta, Chicago. Places I'd never seen. And would never see.
I waited for my opportunity, impatient, unable to stop my toe from tapping. We sat in the long rows of
chairs by the metal detectors, Jasper and Alice pretending to people-watch but really watching me. Every
inch I shifted in my seat was followed by a quick glance out of the corner of their eyes. It was hopeless.
Should I run? Would they dare to stop me physically in this public place? Or would they simply follow?
I pulled the unmarked envelope out of my pocket and set it on top of Alice's black leather bag. She
looked at me.
"My letter," I said. She nodded, tucking it under the top flap. He would find it soon enough.
The minutes passed and Edward's arrival grew closer. It was amazing how every cell in my body seemed
to know he was coming, to long for his coming. That made it very hard. I found myself trying to think of
excuses to stay, to see him first and then make my escape. But I knew that was impossible if I was going
to have any chance to get away.
Several times Alice offered to go get breakfast with me. Later, I told her, not yet.
I stared at the arrival board, watching as flight after flight arrived on time. The flight from Seattle crept
closer to the top of the board.
And then, when I had only thirty minutes to make my escape, the numbers changed. His plane was ten
minutes early. I had no more time.
"I think I'll eat now," I said quickly.
Alice stood. "I'll come with you."
"Do you mind if Jasper comes instead?" I asked. "I'm feeling a little..." I didn't finish the sentence. My
eyes were wild enough to convey what I didn't say.
Jasper stood up. Alice's eyes were confused, but — I saw to my relief— not suspicious. She must be
attributing the change in her vision to some maneuver of the tracker's rather than a betrayal by me.
Jasper walked silently beside me, his hand on the small of my back, as if he were guiding me. I pretended
a lack of interest in the first few airport cafes, my head scanning for what I really wanted. And there it
was, around the corner, out of Alice's sharp sight: the level-three ladies' room.
"Do you mind?" I asked Jasper as we passed. "I'll just be a moment."
"I'll be right here," he said.
As soon as the door shut behind me, I was running. I remembered the time I had gotten lost from this
bathroom, because it had two exits.
Outside the far door it was only a short sprint to the elevators, and if Jasper stayed where he said hewould, I'd never be in his line of sight. I didn't look behind me as I ran. This was my only chance, and
even if he saw me, I had to keep going. People stared, but I ignored them. Around the corner the
elevators were waiting, and I dashed forward, throwing my hand between the closing doors of a full
elevator headed down. I squeezed in beside the irritated passengers, and checked to make sure that the
button for level one had been pushed. It was already lit, and the doors closed.
As soon as the door opened I was off again, to the sound of annoyed murmurs behind me. I slowed
myself as I passed the security guards by the luggage carousels, only to break into a run again as the exit
doors came into view. I had no way of knowing if Jasper was looking for me yet.
I would have only seconds if he was following my scent. I jumped out the automatic doors, nearly
smacking into the glass when they opened too slowly.
Along the crowded curb there wasn't a cab in sight.
I had no time. Alice and Jasper were either about to realize I was gone, or they already had. They would
find me in a heartbeat.
A shuttle to the Hyatt was just closing its doors a few feet behind me.
"Wait!" I called, running, waving at the driver.
"This is the shuttle to the Hyatt," the driver said in confusion as he opened the doors.
"Yes," I huffed, "that's where I'm going." I hurried up the steps.
He looked askance at my luggage-less state, but then shrugged, not caring enough to ask.
Most of the seats were empty. I sat as far from the other travelers as possible, and watched out the
window as first the sidewalk, and then the airport, drifted away. I couldn't help imagining Edward, where
he would stand at the edge of the road when he found the end of my trail. I couldn't cry yet, I told myself.
I still had a long way to go.
My luck held. In front of the Hyatt, a tired-looking couple was getting their last suitcase out of the trunk
of a cab. I jumped out of the shuttle and ran to the cab, sliding into the seat behind the driver. The tired
couple and the shuttle driver stared at me.
I told the surprised cabbie my mother's address. "I need to get there as soon as possible."
"That's in Scottsdale," he complained.
I threw four twenties over the seat.
"Will that be enough?"
"Sure, kid, no problem."
I sat back against the seat, folding my arms across my lap. The familiar city began to rush around me, but
I didn't look out the windows. I exerted myself to maintain control. I was determined not to lose myself at
this point, now that my plan was successfully completed. There was no point in indulging in more terror,
more anxiety. My path was set. I just had to follow it now.
So, instead of panicking, I closed my eyes and spent the twenty minutes' drive with Edward.
I imagined that I had stayed at the airport to meet Edward. I visualized how I would stand on my toes,the sooner to see his face. How quickly, how gracefully he would move through the crowds of people
separating us. And then I would run to close those last few feet between us — reckless as always — and
I would be in his marble arms, finally safe.
I wondered where we would have gone. North somewhere, so he could be outside in the day. Or maybe
somewhere very remote, so we could lay in the sun together again. I imagined him by the shore, his skin
sparkling like the sea. It wouldn't matter how long we had to hide. To be trapped in a hotel room with
him would be a kind of heaven. So many questions I still had for him. I could talk to him forever, never
sleeping, never leaving his side.
I could see his face so clearly now... almost hear his voice. And, despite all the horror and hopelessness,
I was fleetingly happy. So involved was I in my escapist daydreams, I lost all track of the seconds racing
by.
"Hey, what was the number?"
The cabbie's question punctured my fantasy, letting all the colors run out of my lovely delusions. Fear,
bleak and hard, was waiting to fill the empty space they left behind.
"Fifty-eight twenty-one." My voice sounded strangled. The cabbie looked at me, nervous that I was
having an episode or something.
"Here we are, then." He was anxious to get me out of his car, probably hoping I wouldn't ask for my
change.
"Thank you," I whispered. There was no need to be afraid, I reminded myself. The house was empty. I
had to hurry; my mom was waiting for me, frightened, depending on me.
I ran to the door, reaching up automatically to grab the key under the eave. I unlocked the door. It was
dark inside, empty, normal. I ran to the phone, turning on the kitchen light on my way. There, on the
whiteboard, was a ten-digit number written in a small, neat hand. My fingers stumbled over the keypad,
making mistakes. I had to hang up and start again. I concentrated only on the buttons this time, carefully
pressing each one in turn. I was successful. I held the phone to my ear with a shaking hand. It rang only
once.
"Hello, Bella," that easy voice answered. "That was very quick. I'm impressed."
"Is my mom all right?"
"She's perfectly fine. Don't worry, Bella, I have no quarrel with her. Unless you didn't come alone, of
course." Light, amused.
"I'm alone." I'd never been more alone in my entire life.
"Very good. Now, do you know the ballet studio just around the corner from your home?"
"Yes. I know how to get there."
"Well, then, I'll see you very soon."
I hung up.
I ran from the room, through the door, out into the baking heat.
There was no time to look back at my house, and I didn't want to see it as it was now — empty, asymbol of fear instead of sanctuary. The last person to walk through those familiar rooms was my enemy.
From the corner of my eye, I could almost see my mother standing in the shade of the big eucalyptus tree
where I'd played as a child. Or kneeling by the little plot of dirt around the mailbox, the cemetery of all
the flowers she'd tried to grow. The memories were better than any reality I would see today. But I raced
away from them, toward the corner, leaving everything behind me.
I felt so slow, like I was running through wet sand — I couldn't seem to get enough purchase from the
concrete. I tripped several times, once falling, catching myself with my hands, scraping them on the
sidewalk, and then lurching up to plunge forward again. But at last I made it to the corner. Just another
street now; I ran, sweat pouring down my face, gasping. The sun was hot on my skin, too bright as it
bounced off the white concrete and blinded me. I felt dangerously exposed. More fiercely than I would
have dreamed I was capable of, I wished for the green, protective forests of Forks... of home.
When I rounded the last corner, onto Cactus, I could see the studio, looking just as I remembered it. The
parking lot in front was empty, the vertical blinds in all the windows drawn. I couldn't run anymore — I
couldn't breathe; exertion and fear had gotten the best of me. I thought of my mother to keep my feet
moving, one in front of the other.
As I got closer, I could see the sign inside the door. It was handwritten on hot pink paper; it said the
dance studio was closed for spring break. I touched the handle, tugged on it cautiously. It was unlocked.
I fought to catch my breath, and opened the door.
The lobby was dark and empty, cool, the air conditioner thrumming. The plastic molded chairs were
stacked along the walls, and the carpet smelled like shampoo. The west dance floor was dark, I could
see through the open viewing window. The east dance floor, the bigger room, was lit. But the blinds were
closed on the window.
Terror seized me so strongly that I was literally trapped by it. I couldn't make my feet move forward.
And then my mother's voice called.
"Bella? Bella?" That same tone of hysterical panic. I sprinted to the door, to the sound of her voice.
"Bella, you scared me! Don't you ever do that to me again!" Her voice continued as I ran into the long,
high-ceilinged room.
I stared around me, trying to find where her voice was coming from. I heard her laugh, and I whirled to
the sound.
There she was, on the TV screen, tousling my hair in relief. It was Thanksgiving, and I was twelve. We'd
gone to see my grandmother in California, the last year before she died. We went to the beach one day,
and I'd leaned too far over the edge of the pier. She'd seen my feet flailing, trying to reclaim my balance.
"Bella? Bella?" she'd called to me in fear.
And then the TV screen was blue.
I turned slowly. He was standing very still by the back exit, so still I hadn't noticed him at first. In his hand
was a remote control. We stared at each other for a long moment, and then he smiled.
He walked toward me, quite close, and then passed me to put the remote down next to the VCR. I
turned carefully to watch him.
"Sorry about that, Bella, but isn't it better that your mother didn't really have to be involved in all this?"His voice was courteous, kind.
And suddenly it hit me. My mother was safe. She was still in Florida. She'd never gotten my message.
She'd never been terrified by the dark red eyes in the abnormally pale face before me. She was safe.
"Yes," I answered, my voice saturated with relief.
"You don't sound angry that I tricked you."
"I'm not." My sudden high made me brave. What did it matter now? It would soon be over. Charlie and
Mom would never be harmed, would never have to fear. I felt almost giddy. Some analytical part of my
mind warned me that I was dangerously close to snapping from the stress.
"How odd. You really mean it." His dark eyes assessed me with interest. The irises were nearly black,
just a hint of ruby around the edges. Thirsty. "I will give your strange coven this much, you humans can be
quite interesting. I guess I can see the draw of observing you. It's amazing — some of you seem to have
no sense of your own self-interest at all."
He was standing a few feet away from me, arms folded, looking at me curiously. There was no menace in
his face or stance. He was so very average-looking, nothing remarkable about his face or body at all.
Just the white skin, the circled eyes I'd grown so used to. He wore a pale blue, long-sleeved shirt and
faded blue jeans.
"I suppose you're going to tell me that your boyfriend will avenge you?" he asked, hopefully it seemed to
me.
"No, I don't think so. At least, I asked him not to."
"And what was his reply to that?"
"I don't know." It was strangely easy to converse with this genteel hunter. "I left him a letter."
"How romantic, a last letter. And do you think he will honor it?" His voice was just a little harder now, a
hint of sarcasm marring his polite tone.
"I hope so."
"Hmmm. Well, our hopes differ then. You see, this was all just a little too easy, too quick. To be quite
honest, I'm disappointed. I expected a much greater challenge. And, after all, I only needed a little luck."
I waited in silence.
"When Victoria couldn't get to your father, I had her find out more about you. There was no sense in
running all over the planet chasing you down when I could comfortably wait for you in a place of my
choosing. So, after I talked to Victoria, I decided to come to Phoenix to pay your mother a visit. I'd
heard you say you were going home. At first, I never dreamed you meant it. But then I wondered.
Humans can be very predictable; they like to be somewhere familiar, somewhere safe. And wouldn't it be
the perfect ploy, to go to the last place you should be when you're hiding — the place that you said you'd
be.
"But of course I wasn't sure, it was just a hunch. I usually get a feeling about the prey that I'm hunting, a
sixth sense, if you will. I listened to your message when I got to your mother's house, but of course I
couldn't be sure where you'd called from. It was very useful to have your number, but you could have
been in Antarctica for all I knew, and the game wouldn't work unless you were close by."Then your boyfriend got on a plane to Phoenix. Victoria was monitoring them for me, naturally; in a
game with this many players, I couldn't be working alone. And so they told me what I'd hoped, that you
were here after all. I was prepared; I'd already been through your charming home movies. And then it
was simply a matter of the bluff.
"Very easy, you know, not really up to my standards. So, you see, I'm hoping you're wrong about your
boyfriend. Edward, isn't it?"
I didn't answer. The bravado was wearing off. I sensed that he was coming to the end of his gloat. It
wasn't meant for me anyway. There was no glory in beating me, a weak human.
"Would you mind, very much, if I left a little letter of my own for your Edward?"
He took a step back and touched a palm-sized digital video camera balanced carefully on top of the
stereo. A small red light indicated that it was already running. He adjusted it a few times, widened the
frame. I stared at him in horror.
"I'm sorry, but I just don't think he'll be able to resist hunting me after he watches this. And I wouldn't
want him to miss anything. It was all for him, of course. You're simply a human, who unfortunately was in
the wrong place, at the wrong time, and indisputably running with the wrong crowd, I might add."
He stepped toward me, smiling. "Before we begin..."
I felt a curl of nausea in the pit of my stomach as he spoke. This was something I had not anticipated.
"I would just like to rub it in, just a little bit. The answer was there all along, and I was so afraid Edward
would see that and ruin my fun. It happened once, oh, ages ago. The one and only time my prey escaped
me.
"You see, the vampire who was so stupidly fond of this little victim made the choice that your Edward
was too weak to make. When the old one knew I was after his little friend, he stole her from the asylum
where he worked — I never will understand the obsession some vampires seem to form with you
humans — and as soon as he freed her he made her safe. She didn't even seem to notice the pain, poor
little creature. She'd been stuck in that black hole of a cell for so long. A hundred years earlier and she
would have been burned at the stake for her visions. In the nineteen-twenties it was the asylum and the
shock treatments. When she opened her eyes, strong with her fresh youth, it was like she'd never seen
the sun before. The old vampire made her a strong new vampire, and there was no reason for me to
touch her then." He sighed. "I destroyed the old one in vengeance."
"Alice," I breathed, astonished.
"Yes, your little friend. I was surprised to see her in the clearing. So I guess her coven ought to be able to
derive some comfort from this experience. I get you, but they get her. The one victim who escaped me,
quite an honor, actually.
"And she did smell so delicious. I still regret that I never got to taste... She smelled even better than you
do. Sorry — I don't mean to be offensive. You have a very nice smell. Floral, somehow..."
He took another step toward me, till he was just inches away. He lifted a lock of my hair and sniffed at it
delicately. Then he gently patted the strand back into place, and I felt his cool fingertips against my throat.
He reached up to stroke my cheek once quickly with his thumb, his face curious. I wanted so badly to
run, but I was frozen. I couldn't even flinch away.
"No," he murmured to himself as he dropped his hand, "I don't understand." He sighed. "Well, I supposewe should get on with it. And then I can call your friends and tell them where to find you, and my little
message."
I was definitely sick now. There was pain coming, I could see it in his eyes. It wouldn't be enough for him
to win, to feed and go. There would be no quick end like I'd been counting on. My knees began to
shake, and I was afraid I was going to fall.
He stepped back, and began to circle, casually, as if he were trying to get a better view of a statue in a
museum. His face was still open and friendly as he decided where to start.
Then he slumped forward, into a crouch I recognized, and his pleasant smile slowly widened, grew, till it
wasn't a smile at all but a contortion of teeth, exposed and glistening.
I couldn't help myself— I tried to run. As useless as I knew it would be, as weak as my knees already
were, panic took over and I bolted for the emergency door.
He was in front of me in a flash. I didn't see if he used his hand or his foot, it was too fast. A crushing
blow struck my chest — I felt myself flying backward, and then heard the crunch as my head bashed into
the mirrors. The glass buckled, some of the pieces shattering and splintering on the floor beside me.
I was too stunned to feel the pain. I couldn't breathe yet.
He walked toward me slowly.
"That's a very nice effect," he said, examining the mess of glass, his voice friendly again. "I thought this
room would be visually dramatic for my little film. That's why I picked this place to meet you. It's perfect,
isn't it?"
I ignored him, scrambling on my hands and knees, crawling toward the other door.
He was over me at once, his foot stepping down hard on my leg. I heard the sickening snap before I felt
it. But then I did feel it, and I couldn't hold back my scream of agony. I twisted up to reach for my leg,
and he was standing over me, smiling.
"Would you like to rethink your last request?" he asked pleasantly. His toe nudged my broken leg and I
heard a piercing scream. With a shock, I realized it was mine.
"Wouldn't you rather have Edward try to find me?" he prompted.
"No!" I croaked. "No, Edward, don't—" And then something smashed into my face, throwing me back
into the broken mirrors.
Over the pain of my leg, I felt the sharp rip across my scalp where the glass cut into it. And then the
warm wetness began to spread through my hair with alarming speed. I could feel it soaking the shoulder
of my shirt, hear it dripping on the wood below. The smell of it twisted my stomach.
Through the nausea and dizziness I saw something that gave me a sudden, final shred of hope. His eyes,
merely intent before, now burned with an uncontrollable need. The blood — spreading crimson across
my white shirt, pooling rapidly on the floor — was driving him mad with thirst. No matter his original
intentions, he couldn't draw this out much longer.
Let it be quick now, was all I could hope as the flow of blood from my head sucked my consciousness
away with it. My eyes were closing.I heard, as if from underwater, the final growl of the hunter. I could see, through the long tunnels my eyes
had become, his dark shape coming toward me. With my last effort, my hand instinctively raised to
protect my face. My eyes closed, and I drifted.
23. THE ANGEL
As I drifted, I dreamed.
Where I floated, under the dark water, I heard the happiest sound my mind could conjure up — as
beautiful, as uplifting, as it was ghastly. It was another snarl; a deeper, wilder roar that rang with fury.
I was brought back, almost to the surface, by a sharp pain slashing my upraised hand, but I couldn't find
my way back far enough to open my eyes.
And then I knew I was dead.
Because, through the heavy water, I heard the sound of an angel calling my name, calling me to the only
heaven I wanted.
"Oh no, Bella, no!" the angel's voice cried in horror.
Behind that longed-for sound was another noise — an awful tumult that my mind shied away from. A
vicious bass growling, a shocking snapping sound, and a high keening, suddenly breaking off...
I tried to concentrate on the angel's voice instead.
"Bella, please! Bella, listen to me, please, please, Bella, please!" he begged.
Yes, I wanted to say. Anything. But I couldn't find my lips.
"Carlisle!" the angel called, agony in his perfect voice. "Bella, Bella, no, oh please, no, no!" And the angel
was sobbing tearless, broken sobs.
The angel shouldn't weep, it was wrong. I tried to find him, to tell him everything was fine, but the water
was so deep, it was pressing on me, and I couldn't breathe.
There was a point of pressure against my head. It hurt. Then, as that pain broke through the darkness to
me, other pains came, stronger pains. I cried out, gasping, breaking through the dark pool.
"Bella!" the angel cried.
"She's lost some blood, but the head wound isn't deep," a calm voice informed me. "Watch out for her
leg, it's broken."
A howl of rage strangled on the angel's lips.
I felt a sharp stab in my side. This couldn't be heaven, could it? There was too much pain for that.
"Some ribs, too, I think," the methodical voice continued.
But the sharp pains were fading. There was a new pain, a scalding pain in my hand that was
overshadowing everything else.Someone was burning me.
"Edward." I tried to tell him, but my voice was so heavy and slow. I couldn't understand myself.
"Bella, you're going to be fine. Can you hear me, Bella? I love you."
"Edward," I tried again. My voice was a little clearer.
"Yes, I'm here."
"It hurts," I whimpered.
"I know, Bella, I know" — and then, away from me, anguished — "can't you do anything?"
"My bag, please... Hold your breath, Alice, it will help," Carlisle promised.
"Alice?" I groaned.
"She's here, she knew where to find you."
"My hand hurts," I tried to tell him.
"I know, Bella. Carlisle will give you something, it will stop."
"My hand is burning!" I screamed, finally breaking through the last of the darkness, my eyes fluttering
open. I couldn't see his face, something dark and warm was clouding my eyes. Why couldn't they see the
fire and put it out?
His voice was frightened. "Bella?"
"The fire! Someone stop the fire!" I screamed as it burned me.
"Carlisle! Her hand!"
"He bit her." Carlisle's voice was no longer calm, it was appalled.
I heard Edward catch his breath in horror.
"Edward, you have to do it." It was Alice's voice, close by my head. Cool fingers brushed at the wetness
in my eyes.
"No!" he bellowed.
"Alice," I moaned.
"There may be a chance," Carlisle said.
"What?" Edward begged.
"See if you can suck the venom back out. The wound is fairly clean." As Carlisle spoke, I could feel
more pressure on my head, something poking and pulling at my scalp. The pain of it was lost in the pain
of the fire.
"Will that work?" Alice's voice was strained.
"I don't know," Carlisle said. "But we have to hurry.""Carlisle, I..." Edward hesitated. "I don't know if I can do that." There was agony in his beautiful voice
again.
"It's your decision, Edward, either way. I can't help you. I have to get this bleeding stopped here if you're
going to be taking blood from her hand."
I writhed in the grip of the fiery torture, the movement making the pain in my leg flare sickeningly.
"Edward!" I screamed. I realized my eyes were closed again. I opened them, desperate to find his face.
And I found him. Finally, I could see his perfect face, staring at me, twisted into a mask of indecision and
pain.
"Alice, get me something to brace her leg!" Carlisle was bent over me, working on my head. "Edward,
you must do it now, or it will be too late."
Edward's face was drawn. I watched his eyes as the doubt was suddenly replaced with a blazing
determination. His jaw tightened. I felt his cool, strong fingers on my burning hand, locking it in place.
Then his head bent over it, and his cold lips pressed against my skin.
At first the pain was worse. I screamed and thrashed against the cool hands that held me back. I heard
Alice's voice, trying to calm me. Something heavy held my leg to the floor, and Carlisle had my head
locked in the vise of his stone arms.
Then, slowly, my writhing calmed as my hand grew more and more numb. The fire was dulling, focusing
into an ever-smaller point.
I felt my consciousness slipping as the pain subsided. I was afraid to fall into the black waters again,
afraid I would lose him in the darkness.
"Edward," I tried to say, but I couldn't hear my voice. They could hear me.
"He's right here, Bella."
"Stay, Edward, stay with me..."
"I will." His voice was strained, but somehow triumphant.
I sighed contentedly. The fire was gone, the other pains dulled by a sleepiness seeping through my body.
"Is it all out?" Carlisle asked from somewhere far away.
"Her blood tastes clean," Edward said quietly. "I can taste the morphine."
"Bella?" Carlisle called to me.
I tried to answer. "Mmmmm?"
"Is the fire gone?"
"Yes," I sighed. "Thank you, Edward."
"I love you," he answered.
"I know," I breathed, so tired.
I heard my favorite sound in the world: Edward's quiet laugh, weak with relief."Bella?" Carlisle asked again.
I frowned; I wanted to sleep. "What?"
"Where is your mother?"
"In Florida," I sighed. "He tricked me, Edward. He watched our videos." The outrage in my voice was
pitifully frail.
But that reminded me.
"Alice." I tried to open my eyes. "Alice, the video — he knew you, Alice, he knew where you came
from." I meant to speak urgently, but my voice was feeble. "I smell gasoline," I added, surprised through
the haze in my brain.
"It's time to move her," Carlisle said.
"No, I want to sleep," I complained.
"You can sleep, sweetheart, I'll carry you," Edward soothed me.
And I was in his arms, cradled against his chest — floating, all the pain gone.
"Sleep now, Bella" were the last words I heard.
24. AN IMPASSE
My eyes opened to a bright, white light. I was in an unfamiliar room, a white room. The wall beside me
was covered in long vertical blinds; over my head, the glaring lights blinded me. I was propped up on a
hard, uneven bed — a bed with rails. The pillows were flat and lumpy. There was an annoying beeping
sound somewhere close by. I hoped that meant I was still alive. Death shouldn't be this uncomfortable.
My hands were all twisted up with clear tubes, and something was taped across my face, under my nose.
I lifted my hand to rip it off.
"No, you don't." And cool fingers caught my hand.
"Edward?" I turned my head slightly, and his exquisite face was just inches from mine, his chin resting on
the edge of my pillow. I realized again that I was alive, this time with gratitude and elation. "Oh, Edward,
I'm so sorry!"
"Shhhh," he shushed me. "Everything's all right now."
"What happened?" I couldn't remember clearly, and my mind rebelled against me as I tried to recall.
"I was almost too late. I could have been too late," he whispered, his voice tormented.
"I was so stupid, Edward. I thought he had my mom."
"He tricked us all."
"I need to call Charlie and my mom," I realized through the haze."Alice called them. Renée is here — well, here in the hospital. She's getting something to eat right now."
"She's here?" I tried to sit up, but the spinning in my head accelerated, and his hand pushed me gently
down onto the pillows.
"She'll be back soon," he promised. "And you need to stay still."
"But what did you tell her?" I panicked. I had no interest in being soothed. My mom was here and I was
recovering from a vampire attack. "Why did you tell her I'm here?"
"You fell down two flights of stairs and through a window." He paused. "You have to admit, it could
happen."
I sighed, and it hurt. I stared down at my body under the sheet, the huge lump that was my leg.
"How bad am I?" I asked.
"You have a broken leg, four broken ribs, some cracks in your skull, bruises covering every inch of your
skin, and you've lost a lot of blood. They gave you a few transfusions. I didn't like it — it made you smell
all wrong for a while."
"That must have been a nice change for you."
"No, I like how you smell."
"How did you do it?" I asked quietly. He knew what I meant at once.
"I'm not sure." He looked away from my wondering eyes, lifting my gauze-wrapped hand from the bed
and holding it gently in his, careful not to disrupt the wire connecting me to one of the monitors.
I waited patiently for the rest.
He sighed without returning my gaze. "It was impossible... to stop," he whispered. "Impossible. But I
did." He looked up finally, with half a smile. "I must love you."
"Don't I taste as good as I smell?" I smiled in response. That hurt my face.
"Even better — better than I'd imagined."
"I'm sorry," I apologized.
He raised his eyes to the ceiling. "Of all the things to apologize for."
"What should I apologize for?"
"For very nearly taking yourself away from me forever."
"I'm sorry," I apologized again.
"I know why you did it." His voice was comforting. "It was still irrational, of course. You should have
waited for me, you should have told me."
"You wouldn't have let me go."
"No," he agreed in a grim tone, "I wouldn't."Some very unpleasant memories were beginning to come back to me. I shuddered, and then winced.
He was instantly anxious. "Bella, what's wrong?"
"What happened to James?"
"After I pulled him off you, Emmett and Jasper took care of him." There was a fierce note of regret in his
voice.
This confused me. "I didn't see Emmett and Jasper there."
"They had to leave the room... there was a lot of blood."
"But you stayed."
"Yes, I stayed."
"And Alice, and Carlisle..." I said in wonder.
"They love you, too, you know."
A flash of painful images from the last time I'd seen Alice reminded me of something. "Did Alice see the
tape?" I asked anxiously.
"Yes." A new sound darkened his voice, a tone of sheer hatred.
"She was always in the dark, that's why she didn't remember."
"I know. She understands now." His voice was even, but his face was black with fury.
I tried to reach his face with my free hand, but something stopped me. I glanced down to see the IV
pulling at my hand.
"Ugh." I winced.
"What is it?" he asked anxiously — distracted, but not enough. The bleakness did not entirely leave his
eyes.
"Needles," I explained, looking away from the one in my hand. I concentrated on a warped ceiling tile
and tried to breathe deeply despite the ache in my ribs.
"Afraid of a needle," he muttered to himself under his breath, shaking his head. "Oh, a sadistic vampire,
intent on torturing her to death, sure, no problem, she runs off to meet him. An IV, on the other hand..."
I rolled my eyes. I was pleased to discover that this reaction, at least, was pain-free. I decided to change
the subject.
"Why are you here?" I asked.
He stared at me, first confusion and then hurt touching his eyes. His brows pulled together as he frowned.
"Do you want me to leave?"
"No!" I protested, horrified by the thought. "No, I meant, why does my mother think you're here? I need
to have my story straight before she gets back."
"Oh," he said, and his forehead smoothed back into marble. "I came to Phoenix to talk some sense intoyou, to convince you to come back to Forks." His wide eyes were so earnest and sincere, I almost
believed him myself. "You agreed to see me, and you drove out to the hotel where I was staying with
Carlisle and Alice — of course I was here with parental supervision," he inserted virtuously, "but you
tripped on the stairs on the way to my room and... well, you know the rest. You don't need to remember
any details, though; you have a good excuse to be a little muddled about the finer points."
I thought about it for a moment. "There are a few flaws with that story. Like no broken windows."
"Not really," he said. "Alice had a little bit too much fun fabricating evidence. It's all been taken care of
very convincingly — you could probably sue the hotel if you wanted to. You have nothing to worry
about," he promised, stroking my cheek with the lightest of touches. "Your only job now is to heal."
I wasn't so lost to the soreness or the fog of medication that I didn't respond to his touch. The beeping of
the monitor jumped around erratically — now he wasn't the only one who could hear my heart
misbehave.
"That's going to be embarrassing," I muttered to myself.
He chuckled, and a speculative look came into his eye. "Hmm, I wonder..."
He leaned in slowly; the beeping noise accelerated wildly before his lips even touched me. But when they
did, though with the most gentle of pressure, the beeping stopped altogether.
He pulled back abruptly, his anxious expression turning to relief as the monitor reported the restarting of
my heart.
"It seems that I'm going to have to be even more careful with you than usual." He frowned.
"I was not finished kissing you," I complained. "Don't make me come over there."
He grinned, and bent to press his lips lightly to mine. The monitor went wild.
But then his lips were taut. He pulled away.
"I think I hear your mother," he said, grinning again.
"Don't leave me," I cried, an irrational surge of panic flooding through me. I couldn't let him go — he
might disappear from me again.
He read the terror in my eyes for a short second. "I won't," he promised solemnly, and then he smiled.
"I'll take a nap."
He moved from the hard plastic chair by my side to the turquoise faux-leather recliner at the foot of my
bed, leaning it all the way back, and closing his eyes. He was perfectly still.
"Don't forget to breathe," I whispered sarcastically. He took a deep breath, his eyes still closed.
I could hear my mother now. She was talking to someone, maybe a nurse, and she sounded tired and
upset. I wanted to jump out of the bed and run to her, to calm her, promise that everything was fine. But
I wasn't in any sort of shape for jumping, so I waited impatiently.
The door opened a crack, and she peeked through.
"Mom!" I whispered, my voice full of love and relief.She took in Edward's still form on the recliner, and tiptoed to my bedside.
"He never leaves, does he?" she mumbled to herself.
"Mom, I'm so glad to see you!"
She bent down to hug me gently, and I felt warm tears falling on my cheeks.
"Bella, I was so upset!"
"I'm sorry, Mom. But everything's fine now, it's okay," I comforted her.
"I'm just glad to finally see your eyes open." She sat on the edge of my bed.
I suddenly realized I didn't have any idea when it was. "How long have they been closed?"
"It's Friday, hon, you've been out for a while."
"Friday?" I was shocked. I tried to remember what day it had been when... but I didn't want to think
about that.
"They had to keep you sedated for a while, honey — you've got a lot of injuries."
"I know." I could feel them.
"You're lucky Dr. Cullen was there. He's such a nice man... very young, though. And he looks more like
a model than a doctor..."
"You met Carlisle?"
"And Edward's sister Alice. She's a lovely girl."
"She is," I agreed wholeheartedly.
She glanced over her shoulder at Edward, lying with his eyes closed in the chair. "You didn't tell me you
had such good friends in Forks."
I cringed, and then moaned.
"What hurts?" she demanded anxiously, turning back to me. Edward's eyes flashed to my face.
"It's fine," I assured them. "I just have to remember not to move." He lapsed back into his phony slumber.
I took advantage of my mother's momentary distraction to keep the subject from returning to my
less-than-candid behavior. "Where's Phil?" I asked quickly.
"Florida — oh, Bella! You'll never guess! Just when we were about to leave, the best news!"
"Phil got signed?" I guessed.
"Yes! How did you guess! The Suns, can you believe it?"
"That's great, Mom," I said as enthusiastically as I could manage, though I had little idea what that meant.
"And you'll like Jacksonville so much," she gushed while I stared at her vacantly. "I was a little bit worried
when Phil started talking about Akron, what with the snow and everything, because you know how I hatethe cold, but now Jacksonville! It's always sunny, and the humidity really isn't that bad. We found the
cutest house, yellow, with white trim, and a porch just like in an old movie, and this huge oak tree, and
it's just a few minutes from the ocean, and you'll have your own bathroom —"
"Wait, Mom!" I interrupted. Edward still had his eyes closed, but he looked too tense to pass as asleep.
"What are you talking about? I'm not going to Florida. I live in Forks."
"But you don't have to anymore, silly," she laughed. "Phil will be able to be around so much more now...
we've talked about it a lot, and what I'm going to do is trade off on the away games, half the time with
you, half the time with him."
"Mom." I hesitated, wondering how best to be diplomatic about this. "I want to live in Forks. I'm already
settled in at school, and I have a couple of girlfriends" — she glanced toward Edward again when I
reminded her of friends, so I tried another direction — "and Charlie needs me. He's just all alone up
there, and he can't cook at all."
"You want to stay in Forks?" she asked, bewildered. The idea was inconceivable to her. And then her
eyes flickered back toward Edward. "Why?"
"I told you — school, Charlie — ouch!" I'd shrugged. Not a good idea.
Her hands fluttered helplessly over me, trying to find a safe place to pat. She made do with my forehead;
it was unbandaged.
"Bella, honey, you hate Forks," she reminded me.
"It's not so bad."
She frowned and looked back and forth between Edward and me, this time very deliberately.
"Is it this boy?" she whispered.
I opened my mouth to lie, but her eyes were scrutinizing my face, and I knew she would see through that.
"He's part of it," I admitted. No need to confess how big a part. "So, have you had a chance to talk with
Edward?" I asked.
"Yes." She hesitated, looking at his perfectly still form. "And I want to talk to you about that."
Uh-oh. "What about?" I asked.
"I think that boy is in love with you," she accused, keeping her voice low.
"I think so, too," I confided.
"And how do you feel about him?" She only poorly concealed the raging curiosity in her voice.
I sighed, looking away. As much as I loved my mom, this was not a conversation I wanted to have with
her. "I'm pretty crazy about him." There — that sounded like something a teenager with her first
boyfriend might say.
"Well, he seems very nice, and, my goodness, he's incredibly good-looking, but you're so young,
Bella..." Her voice was unsure; as far as I could remember, this was the first time since I was eight that
she'd come close to trying to sound like a parental authority. I recognized the reasonable-but-firm tone of
voice from talks I'd had with her about men."I know that, Mom. Don't worry about it. It's just a crush," I soothed her.
"That's right," she agreed, easily pleased.
Then she sighed and glanced guiltily over her shoulder at the big, round clock on the wall.
"Do you need to go?"
She bit her lip. "Phil's supposed to call in a little while... I didn't know you were going to wake up..."
"No problem, Mom." I tried to tone down the relief so she wouldn't get her feelings hurt. "I won't be
alone."
"I'll be back soon. I've been sleeping here, you know," she announced, proud of herself.
"Oh, Mom, you don't have to do that! You can sleep at home — I'll never notice." The swirl of
painkillers in my brain was making it hard to concentrate even now, though, apparently, I'd been sleeping
for days.
"I was too nervous," she admitted sheepishly. "There's been some crime in the neighborhood, and I don't
like being there alone."
"Crime?" I asked in alarm.
"Someone broke into that dance studio around the corner from the house and burned it to the ground —
there's nothing left at all! And they left a stolen car right out front. Do you remember when you used to
dance there, honey?"
"I remember." I shivered, and winced.
"I can stay, baby, if you need me."
"No, Mom, I'll be fine. Edward will be with me."
She looked like that might be why she wanted to stay. "I'll be back tonight." It sounded as much like a
warning as it sounded like a promise, and she glanced at Edward again as she said it.
"I love you, Mom."
"I love you, too, Bella. Try to be more careful when you walk, honey, I don't want to lose you."
Edward's eyes stayed closed, but a wide grin flashed across his face.
A nurse came bustling in then to check all my tubes and wires. My mother kissed my forehead, patted
my gauze-wrapped hand, and left.
The nurse was checking the paper readout on my heart monitor.
"Are you feeling anxious, honey? Your heart rate got a little high there."
"I'm fine," I assured her.
"I'll tell your RN that you're awake. She'll be in to see you in a minute."
As soon as she closed the door, Edward was at my side."You stole a car?" I raised my eyebrows.
He smiled, unrepentant. "It was a good car, very fast."
"How was your nap?" I asked.
"Interesting." His eyes narrowed.
"What?"
He looked down while he answered. "I'm surprised. I thought Florida... and your mother... well, I
thought that's what you would want."
I stared at him uncomprehendingly. "But you'd be stuck inside all day in Florida. You'd only be able to
come out at night, just like a real vampire."
He almost smiled, but not quite. And then his face was grave. "I would stay in Forks, Bella. Or
somewhere like it," he explained. "Someplace where I couldn't hurt you anymore."
It didn't sink in at first. I continued to stare at him blankly as the words one by one clicked into place in
my head like a ghastly puzzle. I was barely conscious of the sound of my heart accelerating, though, as
my breathing became hyperventilation, I was aware of the sharp aching in my protesting ribs.
He didn't say anything; he watched my face warily as the pain that had nothing to do with broken bones,
pain that was infinitely worse, threatened to crush me.
And then another nurse walked purposefully into the room. Edward sat still as stone as she took in my
expression with a practiced eye before turning to the monitors.
"Time for more pain meds, sweetheart?" she asked kindly, tapping the IV feed.
"No, no," I mumbled, trying to keep the agony out of my voice. "I don't need anything." I couldn't afford
to close my eyes now.
"No need to be brave, honey. It's better if you don't get too stressed out; you need to rest." She waited,
but I just shook my head.
"Okay," she sighed. "Hit the call button when you're ready."
She gave Edward a stern look, and threw one more anxious glance at the machinery, before leaving.
His cool hands were on my face; I stared at him with wild eyes.
"Shhh, Bella, calm down."
"Don't leave me," I begged in a broken voice.
"I won't," he promised. "Now relax before I call the nurse back to sedate you."
But my heart couldn't slow.
"Bella." He stroked my face anxiously. "I'm not going anywhere. I'll be right here as long as you need
me."
"Do you swear you won't leave me?" I whispered. I tried to control the gasping, at least. My ribs were
throbbing.He put his hands on either side of my face and brought his face close to mine. His eyes were wide and
serious. "I swear."
The smell of his breath was soothing. It seemed to ease the ache of my breathing. He continued to hold
my gaze while my body slowly relaxed and the beeping returned to a normal pace. His eyes were dark,
closer to black than gold today.
"Better?" he asked.
"Yes," I said cautiously.
He shook his head and muttered something unintelligible. I thought I picked out the word "overreaction."
"Why did you say that?" I whispered, trying to keep my voice from shaking. "Are you tired of having to
save me all the time? Do you want me to go away?"
"No, I don't want to be without you, Bella, of course not. Be rational. And I have no problem with saving
you, either — if it weren't for the fact that I was the one putting you in danger... that I'm the reason that
you're here."
"Yes, you are the reason." I frowned. "The reason I'm here — alive."
"Barely." His voice was just a whisper. "Covered in gauze and plaster and hardly able to move."
"I wasn't referring to my most recent near-death experience," I said, growing irritated. "I was thinking of
the others — you can take your pick. If it weren't for you, I would be rotting away in the Forks
cemetery."
He winced at my words, but the haunted look didn't leave his eyes.
"That's not the worst part, though," he continued to whisper. He acted as if I hadn't spoken. "Not seeing
you there on the floor... crumpled and broken." His voice was choked. "Not thinking I was too late. Not
even hearing you scream in pain — all those unbearable memories that I'll carry with me for the rest of
eternity. No, the very worst was feeling... knowing that I couldn't stop. Believing that I was going to kill
you myself."
"But you didn't."
"I could have. So easily."
I knew I needed to stay calm... but he was trying to talk himself into leaving me, and the panic fluttered
in my lungs, trying to get out.
"Promise me," I whispered.
"What?"
"You know what." I was starting to get angry now. He was so stubbornly determined to dwell on the
negative.
He heard the change in my tone. His eyes tightened. "I don't seem to be strong enough to stay away from
you, so I suppose that you'll get your way... whether it kills you or not," he added roughly.
"Good." He hadn't promised, though — a fact that I had not missed. The panic was only barely
contained; I had no strength left to control the anger. "You told me how you stopped... now I want toknow why," I demanded.
"Why?" he repeated warily.
"Why you did it. Why didn't you just let the venom spread? By now I would be just like you."
Edward's eyes seemed to turn flat black, and I remembered that this was something he'd never intended
me to know. Alice must have been preoccupied by the things she'd learned about herself... or she'd been
very careful with her thoughts around him — clearly, he'd had no idea that she'd filled me in on the
mechanics of vampire conversions. He was surprised, and infuriated. His nostrils flared, his mouth looked
as if it was chiseled from stone.
He wasn't going to answer, that much was clear.
"I'll be the first to admit that I have no experience with relationships," I said. "But it just seems logical... a
man and woman have to be somewhat equal... as in, one of them can't always be swooping in and
saving the other one. They have to save each other equally."
He folded his arms on the side of my bed and rested his chin on his arms. His expression was smooth,
the anger reined in. Evidently he'd decided he wasn't angry with me. I hoped I'd get a chance to warn
Alice before he caught up with her.
"You have saved me," he said quietly.
"I can't always be Lois Lane," I insisted. "I want to be Superman, too."
"You don't know what you're asking." His voice was soft; he stared intently at the edge of the pillowcase.
"I think I do."
"Bella, you don't know. I've had almost ninety years to think about this, and I'm still not sure."
"Do you wish that Carlisle hadn't saved you?"
"No, I don't wish that." He paused before continuing. "But my life was over. I wasn't giving anything up."
"You are my life. You're the only thing it would hurt me to lose." I was getting better at this. It was easy
to admit how much I needed him.
He was very calm, though. Decided.
"I can't do it, Bella. I won't do that to you."
"Why not?" My throat rasped and the words weren't as loud as I'd meant them to be. "Don't tell me it's
too hard! After today, or I guess it was a few days ago... anyway, after that, it should be nothing."
He glared at me.
"And the pain?" he asked.
I blanched. I couldn't help it. But I tried to keep my expression from showing how clearly I remembered
the feeling... the fire in my veins.
"That's my problem," I said. "I can handle it."
"It's possible to take bravery to the point where it becomes insanity.""It's not an issue. Three days. Big deal."
Edward grimaced again as my words reminded him that I was more informed than he had ever intended
me to be. I watched him repress the anger, watched as his eyes grew speculative.
"Charlie?" he asked curtly. "Renée?"
Minutes passed in silence as I struggled to answer his question. I opened my mouth, but no sound came
out. I closed it again. He waited, and his expression became triumphant because he knew I had no true
answer.
"Look, that's not an issue either," I finally muttered; my voice was as unconvincing as it always was when
I lied. "Renée has always made the choices that work for her — she'd want me to do the same. And
Charlie's resilient, he's used to being on his own. I can't take care of them forever. I have my own life to
live."
"Exactly," he snapped. "And I won't end it for you."
"If you're waiting for me to be on my deathbed, I've got news for you! I was just there!"
"You're going to recover," he reminded me.
I took a deep breath to calm myself, ignoring the spasm of pain it triggered. I stared at him, and he stared
back. There was no compromise in his face.
"No," I said slowly. "I'm not."
His forehead creased. "Of course you are. You may have a scar or two..."
"You're wrong," I insisted. "I'm going to die."
"Really, Bella." He was anxious now. "You'll be out of here in a few days. Two week at most."
I glared at him. "I may not die now... but I'm going to die sometime. Every minute of the day, I get
closer. And I'm going to get old."
He frowned as what I was saying sunk in, pressing his long fingers to his temples and closing his eyes.
"That's how it's supposed to happen. How it should happen. How it would have happened if I didn't exist
— and I shouldn't exist."
I snorted. He opened his eyes in surprise. "That's stupid. That's like going to someone who's just won the
lottery, taking their money, and saying, 'Look, let's just go back to how things should be. It's better that
way.' And I'm not buying it."
"I'm hardly a lottery prize," he growled.
"That's right. You're much better."
He rolled his eyes and set his lips. "Bella, we're not having this discussion anymore. I refuse to damn you
to an eternity of night and that's the end of it."
"If you think that's the end, then you don't know me very well," I warned him. "You're not the only
vampire I know."
His eyes went black again. "Alice wouldn't dare."And for a moment he looked so frightening that I couldn't help but believe it — I couldn't imagine
someone brave enough to cross him.
"Alice already saw it, didn't she?" I guessed. "That's why the things she says upset you. She knows I'm
going to be like you... someday."
"She's wrong. She also saw you dead, but that didn't happen, either."
"You'll never catch me betting against Alice."
We stared at each other for a very long time. It was quiet except for the whirring of the machines, the
beeping, the dripping, the ticking of the big clock on the wall. Finally, his expression softened.
"So where does that leave us?" I wondered.
He chuckled humorlessly. "I believe it's called an impasse."
I sighed. "Ouch," I muttered.
"How are you feeling?" he asked, eyeing the button for the nurse.
"I'm fine," I lied.
"I don't believe you," he said gently.
"I'm not going back to sleep."
"You need rest. All this arguing isn't good for you."
"So give in," I hinted.
"Nice try." He reached for the button.
"No!"
He ignored me.
"Yes?" the speaker on the wall squawked.
"I think we're ready for more pain medication," he said calmly, ignoring my furious expression.
"I'll send in the nurse." The voice sounded very bored.
"I won't take it," I promised.
He looked toward the sack of fluids hanging beside my bed. "I don't think they're going to ask you to
swallow anything."
My heart rate started to climb. He read the fear in my eyes, and sighed in frustration.
"Bella, you're in pain. You need to relax so you can heal. Why are you being so difficult? They're not
going to put any more needles in you now."
"I'm not afraid of the needles," I mumbled. "I'm afraid to close my eyes."
Then he smiled his crooked smile, and took my face between his hands. "I told you I'm not goinganywhere. Don't be afraid. As long as it makes you happy, I'll be here."
I smiled back, ignoring the ache in my cheeks. "You're talking about forever, you know."
"Oh, you'll get over it — it's just a crush."
I shook my head in disbelief— it made me dizzy. "I was shocked when Renée swallowed that one. I
know you know better."
"That's the beautiful thing about being human," he told me. "Things change."
My eyes narrowed. "Don't hold your breath."
He was laughing when the nurse came in, brandishing a syringe.
"Excuse me," she said brusquely to Edward.
He got up and crossed to the end of the small room, leaning against the wall. He folded his arms and
waited. I kept my eyes on him, still apprehensive. He met my gaze calmly.
"Here you go, honey." The nurse smiled as she injected the medicine into my tube. "You'll feel better
now."
"Thanks," I mumbled, unenthusiastic. It didn't take long. I could feel the drowsiness trickling through my
bloodstream almost immediately.
"That ought to do it," she muttered as my eyelids drooped.
She must have left the room, because something cold and smooth touched my face.
"Stay." The word was slurred.
"I will," he promised. His voice was beautiful, like a lullaby. "Like I said, as long as it makes you happy...
as long as it's what's best for you."
I tried to shake my head, but it was too heavy. "'S not the same thing," I mumbled.
He laughed. "Don't worry about that now, Bella. You can argue with me when you wake up."
I think I smiled. '"Kay."
I could feel his lips at my ear.
"I love you," he whispered.
"Me, too."
"I know," he laughed quietly.
I turned my head slightly... searching. He knew what I was after. His lips touched mine gently.
"Thanks," I sighed.
"Anytime."
I wasn't really there at all anymore. But I fought against the stupor weakly. There was just one more thingI wanted to tell him.
"Edward?" I struggled to pronounce his name clearly.
"Yes?"
"I'm betting on Alice," I mumbled.
And then the night closed over me.
EPILOGUE:AN OCCASION
Edward helped me into his car, being very careful of the wisps of silk and chiffon, the flowers he'd just
pinned into my elaborately styled curls, and my bulky walking cast. He ignored the angry set of my
mouth.
When he had me settled, he got in the driver's seat and headed back out the long, narrow drive.
"At what point exactly are you going to tell me what's going on?" I asked grumpily. I really hated
surprises. And he knew that.
"I'm shocked that you haven't figured it out yet." He threw a mocking smile in my direction, and my
breath caught in my throat. Would I ever get used to his perfection?
"I did mention that you looked very nice, didn't I?" I verified.
"Yes." He grinned again. I'd never seen him dress in black before, and, with the contrast against his pale
skin, his beauty was absolutely surreal. That much I couldn't deny, even if the fact that he was wearing a
tuxedo made me very nervous.
Not quite as nervous as the dress. Or the shoe. Only one shoe, as my other foot was still securely
encased in plaster. But the stiletto heel, held on only by satin ribbons, certainly wasn't going to help me as
I tried to hobble around.
"I'm not coming over anymore if Alice is going to treat me like Guinea Pig Barbie when I do," I griped.
I'd spent the better part of the day in Alice's staggeringly vast bathroom, a helpless victim as she played
hairdresser and cosmetician. Whenever I fidgeted or complained, she reminded me that she didn't have
any memories of being human, and asked me not to ruin her vicarious fun. Then she'd dressed me in the
most ridiculous dress — deep blue, frilly and off the shoulders, with French tags I couldn't read — a
dress more suitable for a runway than Forks. Nothing good could come of our formal attire, of that I was
sure. Unless... but I was afraid to put my suspicions into words, even in my own head.
I was distracted then by the sound of a phone ringing. Edward pulled his cell phone from a pocket inside
his jacket, looking briefly at the caller ID before answering.
"Hello, Charlie," he said warily.
"Charlie?" I frowned.
Charlie had been... difficult since my return to Forks. He had compartmentalized my bad experience into
two defined reactions. Toward Carlisle he was almost worshipfully grateful. On the other hand, he wasstubbornly convinced that Edward was at fault — because, if not for him, I wouldn't have left home in the
first place. And Edward was far from disagreeing with him. These days I had rules that hadn't existed
before: curfews... visiting hours.
Something Charlie was saying made Edward's eyes widen in disbelief, and then a grin spread across his
face.
"You're kidding!" He laughed.
"What is it?" I demanded.
He ignored me. "Why don't you let me talk to him?" Edward suggested with evident pleasure. He waited
for a few seconds.
"Hello, Tyler, this is Edward Cullen." His voice was very friendly, on the surface. I knew it well enough to
catch the soft edge of menace. What was Tyler doing at my house? The awful truth began to dawn on
me. I looked again at the inappropriate dress Alice had forced me into.
"I'm sorry if there's been some kind of miscommunication, but Bella is unavailable tonight." Edward's tone
changed, and the threat in his voice was suddenly much more evident as he continued. "To be perfectly
honest, she'll be unavailable every night, as far as anyone besides myself is concerned. No offense. And
I'm sorry about your evening." He didn't sound sorry at all. And then he snapped the phone shut, a huge
smirk on his face.
My face and neck flushed crimson with anger. I could feel the rage-induced tears starting to fill my eyes.
He looked at me in surprise. "Was that last part a bit too much? I didn't mean to offend you."
I ignored that.
"You're taking me to the prom!" I yelled.
It was embarrassingly obvious now. If I'd been paying any attention at all, I'm sure I would have noticed
the date on the posters that decorated the school buildings. But I'd never dreamed he was thinking of
subjecting me to this. Didn't he know me at all?
He wasn't expecting the force of my reaction, that was clear. He pressed his lips together and his eyes
narrowed. "Don't be difficult, Bella."
My eyes flashed to the window; we were halfway to the school already.
"Why are you doing this to me?" I demanded in horror.
He gestured to his tuxedo. "Honestly, Bella, what did you think we were doing?"
I was mortified. First, because I'd missed the obvious. And also because the vague suspicions —
expectations, really — that I'd been forming all day, as Alice tried to transform me into a beauty queen,
were so far wide of the mark. My half-fearful hopes seemed very silly now.
I'd guessed there was some kind of occasion brewing. But prom! That was the furthest thing from my
mind.
The angry tears rolled over my cheeks. I remembered with dismay that I was very uncharacteristically
wearing mascara. I wiped quickly under my eyes to prevent any smudges. My hand was unblackened
when I pulled it away; maybe Alice had known I would need waterproof makeup."This is completely ridiculous. Why are you crying?" he demanded in frustration.
"Because I'm mad!"
"Bella." He turned the full force of his scorching golden eyes on me.
"What?" I muttered, distracted.
"Humor me," he insisted.
His eyes were melting all my fury. It was impossible to fight with him when he cheated like that. I gave in
with poor grace.
"Fine," I pouted, unable to glare as effectively as I would have liked. "I'll go quietly. But you'll see. I'm
way overdue for more bad luck. I'll probably break my other leg. Look at this shoe! It's a death trap!" I
held out my good leg as evidence.
"Hmmm." He stared at my leg longer than was necessary. "Remind me to thank Alice for that tonight."
"Alice is going to be there?" That comforted me slightly.
"With Jasper, and Emmett... and Rosalie," he admitted.
The feeling of comfort disappeared. There had been no progress with Rosalie, though I was on quite
good terms with her sometimes-husband. Emmett enjoyed having me around — he thought my bizarre
human reactions were hilarious... or maybe it was just the fact that I fell down a lot that he found so
funny. Rosalie acted as if I didn't exist. While I shook my head to dispel the direction my thoughts had
taken, I thought of something else.
"Is Charlie in on this?" I asked, suddenly suspicious.
"Of course." He grinned, and then chuckled. "Apparently Tyler wasn't, though."
I gritted my teeth. How Tyler could be so delusional, I couldn't imagine. At school, where Charlie
couldn't interfere, Edward and I were inseparable — except for those rare sunny days.
We were at the school now; Rosalie's red convertible was conspicuous in the parking lot. The clouds
were thin today, a few streaks of sunlight escaping through far away in the west.
He got out and walked around the car to open my door. He held out his hand.
I sat stubbornly in my seat, arms folded, feeling a secret twinge of smugness. The lot was crowded with
people in formal dress: witnesses. He couldn't remove me forcibly from the car as he might have if we'd
been alone.
He sighed. "When someone wants to kill you, you're brave as a lion — and then when someone mentions
dancing..." He shook his head.
I gulped. Dancing.
"Bella, I won't let anything hurt you — not even yourself. I won't let go of you once, I promise."
I thought about that and suddenly felt much better. He could see that in my face.
"There, now," he said gently, "it won't be so bad." He leaned down and wrapped one arm around mywaist. I took his other hand and let him lift me from the car.
He kept his arm tightly around me, supporting me as I limped toward the school.
In Phoenix, they held proms in hotel ballrooms. This dance was in the gym, of course. It was probably
the only room in town big enough for a dance. When we got inside, I giggled. There were actual balloon
arches and twisted garlands of pastel crepe paper festooning the walls.
"This looks like a horror movie waiting to happen," I snickered.
"Well," he muttered as we slowly approached the ticket table — he was carrying most of my weight, but
I still had to shuffle and wobble my feet forward — "there are more than enough vampires present."
I looked at the dance floor; a wide gap had formed in the center of the floor, where two couples whirled
gracefully. The other dancers pressed to the sides of the room to give them space — no one wanted to
stand in contrast with such radiance. Emmett and Jasper were intimidating and flawless in classic tuxedos.
Alice was striking in a black satin dress with geometric cutouts that bared large triangles of her snowy
white skin. And Rosalie was... well, Rosalie. She was beyond belief. Her vivid scarlet dress was
backless, tight to her calves where it flared into a wide ruffled train, with a neckline that plunged to her
waist. I pitied every girl in the room, myself included.
"Do you want me to bolt the doors so you can massacre the unsuspecting townsfolk?" I whispered
conspiratorially.
"And where do you fit into that scheme?" He glared.
"Oh, I'm with the vampires, of course."
He smiled reluctantly. "Anything to get out of dancing."
"Anything."
He bought our tickets, then turned me toward the dance floor. I cringed against his arm and dragged my
feet.
"I've got all night," he warned.
Eventually he towed me out to where his family was twirling elegantly — if in a style totally unsuitable to
the present time and music. I watched in horror.
"Edward." My throat was so dry I could only manage a whisper. "I honestly can't dance!" I could feel
the panic bubbling up inside my chest.
"Don't worry, silly," he whispered back. "I can." He put my arms around his neck and lifted me to slide
his feet under mine.
And then we were whirling, too.
"I feel like I'm five years old," I laughed after a few minutes of effortless waltzing.
"You don't look five," he murmured, pulling me closer for a second, so that my feet were briefly a foot
from the ground.
Alice caught my eye on a turn and smiled in encouragement — I smiled back. I was surprised to realize
that I was actually enjoying myself... a little."Okay, this isn't half bad," I admitted.
But Edward was staring toward the doors, and his face was angry.
"What is it?" I wondered aloud. I followed his gaze, disoriented by the spinning, but finally I could see
what was bothering him. Jacob Black, not in a tux, but in a long-sleeved white shirt and tie, his hair
smoothed back into his usual ponytail, was crossing the floor toward us.
After the first shock of recognition, I couldn't help but feel bad for Jacob. He was clearly uncomfortable
— excruciatingly so. His face was apologetic as his eyes met mine.
Edward snarled very quietly.
"Behave!" I hissed.
Edward's voice was scathing. "He wants to chat with you."
Jacob reached us then, the embarrassment and apology even more evident on his face.
"Hey, Bella, I was hoping you would be here." Jacob sounded like he'd been hoping the exact opposite.
But his smile was just as warm as ever.
"Hi, Jacob." I smiled back. "What's up?"
"Can I cut in?" he asked tentatively, glancing at Edward for the first time. I was shocked to notice that
Jacob didn't have to look up. He must have grown half a foot since the first time I'd seen him.
Edward's face was composed, his expression blank. His only answer was to set me carefully on my feet,
and take a step back.
"Thanks," Jacob said amiably.
Edward just nodded, looking at me intently before he turned to walk away.
Jacob put his hands on my waist, and I reached up to put my hands on his shoulders.
"Wow, Jake, how tall are you now?"
He was smug. "Six-two."
We weren't really dancing — my leg made that impossible. Instead we swayed awkwardly from side to
side without moving our feet. It was just as well; the recent growth spurt had left him looking gangly and
uncoordinated, he was probably no better a dancer than I was.
"So, how did you end up here tonight?" I asked without true curiosity. Considering Edward's reaction, I
could guess.
"Can you believe my dad paid me twenty bucks to come to your prom?" he admitted, slightly ashamed.
"Yes, I can," I muttered. "Well, I hope you're enjoying yourself, at least. Seen anything you like?" I
teased, nodding toward a group of girls lined up against the wall like pastel confections.
"Yeah," he sighed. "But she's taken."
He glanced down to meet my curious gaze for just a second — then we both looked away,
embarrassed."You look really pretty, by the way," he added shyly.
"Um, thanks. So why did Billy pay you to come here?" I asked quickly, though I knew the answer.
Jacob didn't seem grateful for the subject change; he looked away, uncomfortable again. "He said it was
a 'safe' place to talk to you. I swear the old man is losing his mind."
I joined in his laughter weakly.
"Anyway, he said that if I told you something, he would get me that master cylinder I need," he confessed
with a sheepish grin.
"Tell me, then. I want you to get your car finished." I grinned back. At least Jacob didn't believe any of
this. It made the situation a bit easier. Against the wall, Edward was watching my face, his own face
expressionless. I saw a sophomore in a pink dress eyeing him with timid speculation, but he didn't seem
to be aware of her.
Jacob looked away again, ashamed. "Don't get mad, okay?"
"There's no way I'll be mad at you, Jacob," I assured him. "I won't even be mad at Billy. Just say what
you have to."
"Well — this is so stupid, I'm sorry, Bella — he wants you to break up with your boyfriend. He asked
me to tell you 'please.'" He shook his head in disgust.
"He's still superstitious, eh?"
"Yeah. He was... kind of over the top when you got hurt down in Phoenix. He didn't believe..."Jacob
trailed off self-consciously.
My eyes narrowed. "I fell."
"I know that," Jacob said quickly.
"He thinks Edward had something to do with me getting hurt." It wasn't a question, and despite my
promise, I was angry.
Jacob wouldn't meet my eyes. We weren't even bothering to sway to the music, though his hands were
still on my waist, and mine around his neck.
"Look, Jacob, I know Billy probably won't believe this, but just so you know" — he looked at me now,
responding to the new earnestness in my voice — "Edward really did save my life. If it weren't for
Edward and his father, I'd be dead."
"I know," he claimed, but he sounded like my sincere words had affected him some. Maybe he'd be able
to convince Billy of this much, at least.
"Hey, I'm sorry you had to come do this, Jacob," I apologized. "At any rate, you get your parts, right?"
"Yeah," he muttered. He was still looking awkward... upset.
"There's more?" I asked in disbelief.
"Forget it," he mumbled, "I'll get a job and save the money myself."I glared at him until he met my gaze. "Just spit it out, Jacob."
"It's so bad."
"I don't care. Tell me," I insisted.
"Okay... but, geez, this sounds bad." He shook his head. "He said to tell you, no, to warn you, that —
and this is his plural, not mine" — he lifted one hand from my waist and made little quotations marks in
the air — '"We'll be watching.'" He watched warily for my reaction.
It sounded like something from a mafia movie. I laughed out loud.
"Sorry you had to do this, Jake," I snickered.
"I don't mind that much." He grinned in relief. His eyes were appraising as they raked quickly over my
dress. "So, should I tell him you said to butt the hell out?" he asked hopefully.
"No," I sighed. "Tell him I said thanks. I know he means well."
The song ended, and I dropped my arms.
His hands hesitated at my waist, and he glanced at my bum leg. "Do you want to dance again? Or can I
help you get somewhere?"
Edward answered for me. "That's all right, Jacob. I'll take it from here."
Jacob flinched, and stared wide-eyed at Edward, who stood just beside us.
"Hey, I didn't see you there," he mumbled. "I guess I'll see you around, Bella." He stepped back, waving
halfheartedly.
I smiled. "Yeah, I'll see you later."
"Sorry," he said again before he turned for the door.
Edward's arms wound around me as the next song started. It was a little up-tempo for slow dancing, but
that didn't seem to concern him. I leaned my head against his chest, content.
"Feeling better?" I teased.
"Not really," he said tersely.
"Don't be mad at Billy," I sighed. "He just worries about me for Charlie's sake. It's nothing personal."
"I'm not mad at Billy," he corrected in a clipped voice. "But his son is irritating me."
I pulled back to look at him. His face was very serious.
"Why?"
"First of all, he made me break my promise."
I stared at him in confusion.
He half-smiled. "I promised I wouldn't let go of you tonight," he explained."Oh. Well, I forgive you."
"Thanks. But there's something else." Edward frowned.
I waited patiently.
"He called you pretty," he finally continued, his frown deepening. "That's practically an insult, the way
you look right now. You're much more than beautiful."
I laughed. "You might be a little biased."
"I don't think that's it. Besides, I have excellent eyesight."
We were twirling again, my feet on his as he held me close.
"So are you going to explain the reason for all of this?" I wondered.
He looked down at me, confused, and I glared meaningfully at the crepe paper.
He considered for a moment, and then changed direction, spinning me through the crowd to the back
door of the gym. I caught a glimpse of Jessica and Mike dancing, staring at me curiously. Jessica waved,
and I smiled back quickly. Angela was there, too, looking blissfully happy in the arms of little Ben
Cheney; she didn't look up from his eyes, a head lower than hers. Lee and Samantha, Lauren, glaring
toward us, with Conner; I could name every face that spiraled past me. And then we were outdoors, in
the cool, dim light of a fading sunset.
As soon as we were alone, he swung me up into his arms, and carried me across the dark grounds till he
reached the bench beneath the shadow of the madrone trees. He sat there, keeping me cradled against
his chest. The moon was already up, visible through the gauzy clouds, and his face glowed pale in the
white light. His mouth was hard, his eyes troubled.
"The point?" I prompted softly.
He ignored me, staring up at the moon.
"Twilight, again," he murmured. "Another ending. No matter how perfect the day is, it always has to end."
"Some things don't have to end," I muttered through my teeth, instantly tense.
He sighed.
"I brought you to the prom," he said slowly, finally answering my question, "because I don't want you to
miss anything. I don't want my presence to take anything away from you, if I can help it. I want you to
be human. I want your life to continue as it would have if I'd died in nineteen-eighteen like I should
have."
I shuddered at his words, and then shook my head angrily. "In what strange parallel dimension would I
ever have gone to prom of my own free will? If you weren't a thousand times stronger than me, I would
never have let you get away with this."
He smiled briefly, but it didn't touch his eyes. "It wasn't so bad, you said so yourself."
"That's because I was with you."
We were quiet for a minute; he stared at the moon and I stared at him. I wished there was some way toexplain how very uninterested I was in a normal human life.
"Will you tell me something?" he asked, glancing down at me with a slight smile.
"Don't I always?"
"Just promise you'll tell me," he insisted, grinning.
I knew I was going to regret this almost instantly. "Fine."
"You seemed honestly surprised when you figured out that I was taking you here," he began.
"I was," I interjected.
"Exactly," he agreed. "But you must have had some other theory... I'm curious — what did you think I
was dressing you up for?"
Yes, instant regret. I pursed my lips, hesitating. "I don't want to tell you."
"You promised," he objected.
"I know."
"What's the problem?"
I knew he thought it was mere embarrassment holding me back. "I think it will make you mad — or sad."
His brows pulled together over his eyes as he thought that through. "I still want to know. Please?"
I sighed. He waited.
"Well... I assumed it was some kind of... occasion. But I didn't think it would be some trite human
thing... prom!" I scoffed.
"Human?" he asked flatly. He'd picked up on the key word.
I looked down at my dress, fidgeting with a stray piece of chiffon. He waited in silence.
"Okay," I confessed in a rush. "So I was hoping that you might have changed your mind... that you were
going to change me, after all."
A dozen emotions played across his face. Some I recognized: anger... pain... and then he seemed to
collect himself and his expression became amused.
"You thought that would be a black tie occasion, did you?" he teased, touching the lapel of his tuxedo
jacket.
I scowled to hide my embarrassment. "I don't know how these things work. To me, at least, it seems
more rational than prom does." He was still grinning. "It's not funny," I said.
"No, you're right, it's not," he agreed, his smile fading. "I'd rather treat it like a joke, though, than believe
you're serious."
"But I am serious."
He sighed deeply. "I know. And you're really that willing?"The pain was back in his eyes. I bit my lip and nodded.
"So ready for this to be the end," he murmured, almost to himself, "for this to be the twilight of your life,
though your life has barely started. You're ready to give up everything."
"It's not the end, it's the beginning," I disagreed under my breath.
"I'm not worth it," he said sadly.
"Do you remember when you told me that I didn't see myself very clearly?" I asked, raising my
eyebrows. "You obviously have the same blindness."
"I know what I am."
I sighed.
But his mercurial mood shifted on me. He pursed his lips, and his eyes were probing. He examined my
face for a long moment.
"You're ready now, then?" he asked.
"Um." I gulped. "Yes?"
He smiled, and inclined his head slowly until his cold lips brushed against the skin just under the corner of
my jaw.
"Right now?" he whispered, his breath blowing cool on my neck. I shivered involuntarily.
"Yes," I whispered, so my voice wouldn't have a chance to break. If he thought I was bluffing, he was
going to be disappointed. I'd already made this decision, and I was sure. It didn't matter that my body
was rigid as a plank, my hands balled into fists, my breathing erratic...
He chuckled darkly, and leaned away. His face did look disappointed.
"You can't really believe that I would give in so easily," he said with a sour edge to his mocking tone.
"A girl can dream."
His eyebrows rose. "Is that what you dream about? Being a monster?"
"Not exactly," I said, frowning at his word choice. Monster, indeed. "Mostly I dream about being with
you forever."
His expression changed, softened and saddened by the subtle ache in my voice.
"Bella." His fingers lightly traced the shape of my lips. "I will stay with you — isn't that enough?"
I smiled under his fingertips. "Enough for now."
He frowned at my tenacity. No one was going to surrender tonight. He exhaled, and the sound was
practically a growl.
I touched his face. "Look," I said. "I love you more than everything else in the world combined. Isn't that
enough?"
"Yes, it is enough," he answered, smiling. "Enough for forever."And he leaned down to press his cold lips once more to my throat.
Acknowledgments
A huge thank you to:
my parents, Steve and Candy,
for a lifetime of love and support,S
for reading great books to me when I was young,
and for still holding my hand through the
things that make me nervous;
my husband, Pancho, and my sons, Gabe, Seth, and Eli,
for sharing me so often with my imaginary friends;
my friends at Writers House,
Genevieve Gagne-Hawes, for giving me that first chance,
and my agent Jodi Reamer, for turning the most
unlikely dreams into realities;
my editor Megan Tingley, for all her help in
making Twilight better than it started out;
my brothers, Paul and Jacob, for their expert advice on all
my automotive questions; and my online family,
the talented staff and writers at fansofrealitytv.com,
particularly Kimberly "Shazzer," and Collin "Mantenna"
for the encouragement, advice,
and inspiration.

First published by The Writer’s Coffee Shop, 2011
Copyright © E L James, 2011
The right of E L James to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by her
under the Copyright Amendment (Moral Rights) Act 2000
This work is copyright. Apart from any use as permitted under the Copyright Act 1968,
no part maybe reproduced, copied, scanned, stored in a retrieval system, recorded or
transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission of the
publisher.
This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are either a prod-
uct of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual people
living or dead, events or locales is entirely coincidental.
The Writer’s Coffee Shop
(Australia) PO Box 2013 Hornsby Westfield NSW 1635
(USA) PO Box 2116 Waxahachie TX 75168
Paperback ISBN-978-1-61213-028-6
E-book ISBN-978-1-61213-029-3
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the US Congress Library.
Cover image by: © Papuga2006 | Dreamstime.com
Cover design by: Jennifer McGuire
www.thewriterscoffeeshop.com/ejamesE L James is a TV executive, wife, and mother of two, based in West London. Since early
childhood, she dreamt of writing stories that readers would fall in love with, but put those
dreams on hold to focus on her family and her career. She finally plucked up the courage
to put pen to paper with her first novel, Fifty Shades of Grey.
E L James is currently working on the sequel to Fifty Shades of Grey and a new romantic
thriller with a supernatural twist.I am indebted to the following people for their help and support:
To my husband Niall – thank you for tolerating my obsession, being a domestic god and doing
the first edit.
To my boss Lisa – thank you for putting up with me over the last year or so while I indulged in
this madness.
To CCL – I’ll never tell but thank you.
To the original bunker babes – thank you for your friendship and constant support.
To SR – thank you for all the helpful advice from the start and for going first.
To Sue – thanks for sorting me out.
To Amanda and all at TWCS – thank you for taking a punt.I scowl with frustration at myself in the mirror. Damn my hair – it just won’t behave,
and damn Katherine Kavanagh for being ill and subjecting me to this ordeal. I should be
studying for my final exams, which are next week, yet here I am trying to brush my hair
into submission. I must not sleep with it wet. I must not sleep with it wet. Reciting this
mantra several times, I attempt, once more, to bring it under control with the brush. I roll
my eyes in exasperation and gaze at the pale, brown-haired girl with blue eyes too big for
her face staring back at me, and give up. My only option is to restrain my wayward hair in
a ponytail and hope that I look semi presentable.
Kate is my roommate, and she has chosen today of all days to succumb to the flu.
Therefore, she cannot attend the interview she’d arranged to do, with some mega-industri-
alist tycoon I’ve never heard of, for the student newspaper. So I have been volunteered. I
have final exams to cram for, one essay to finish, and I’m supposed to be working this af-
ternoon, but no – today I have to drive a hundred and sixty-five miles to downtown Seattle
in order to meet the enigmatic CEO of Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc. As an exceptional
entrepreneur and major benefactor of our University, his time is extraordinarily precious
– much more precious than mine – but he has granted Kate an interview. A real coup, she
tells me. Damn her extra-curricular activities.
Kate is huddled on the couch in the living room.“Ana, I’m sorry. It took me nine months to get this interview. It will take another
six to reschedule, and we’ll both have graduated by then. As the editor, I can’t blow this
off. Please,” Kate begs me in her rasping, sore throat voice. How does she do it? Even
ill she looks gamine and gorgeous, strawberry blonde hair in place and green eyes bright,
although now red-rimmed and runny. I ignore my pang of unwelcome sympathy.
“Of course I’ll go Kate. You should get back to bed. Would you like some Nyquil or
Tylenol?”
“Nyquil, please. Here are the questions and my mini-disc recorder. Just press record
here. Make notes, I’ll transcribe it all.”
“I know nothing about him,” I murmur, trying and failing to suppress my rising panic.
“The questions will see you through. Go. It’s a long drive. I don’t want you to be late.”
“Okay, I’m going. Get back to bed. I made you some soup to heat up later.” I stare at
her fondly. Only for you, Kate, would I do this.
“I will. Good luck. And thanks Ana – as usual, you’re my lifesaver.”
Gathering my satchel, I smile wryly at her, then head out the door to the car. I can-
not believe I have let Kate talk me into this. But then Kate can talk anyone into anything.
She’ll make an exceptional journalist. She’s articulate, strong, persuasive, argumentative,
beautiful – and she’s my dearest, dearest friend.
The roads are clear as I set off from Vancouver, WA toward Portland and the I-5. It’s early,
and I don’t have to be in Seattle until two this afternoon. Fortunately, Kate’s lent me her
sporty Mercedes CLK. I’m not sure Wanda, my old VW Beetle, would make the journey in
time. Oh, the Merc is a fun drive, and the miles slip away as I floor the pedal to the metal.
My destination is the headquarters of Mr. Grey’s global enterprise. It’s a huge twenty-
story office building, all curved glass and steel, an architect’s utilitarian fantasy, with Grey
House written discreetly in steel over the glass front doors. It’s a quarter to two when I
arrive, greatly relieved that I’m not late as I walk into the enormous – and frankly intimi-
dating – glass, steel, and white sandstone lobby.
Behind the solid sandstone desk, a very attractive, groomed, blonde young woman
smiles pleasantly at me. She’s wearing the sharpest charcoal suit jacket and white shirt I
have ever seen. She looks immaculate.
“I’m here to see Mr. Grey. Anastasia Steele for Katherine Kavanagh.”
“Excuse me one moment, Miss Steele.” She arches her eyebrow slightly as I stand self-
consciously before her. I am beginning to wish I’d borrowed one of Kate’s formal blazers
rather than wear my navy blue jacket. I have made an effort and worn my one and only
skirt, my sensible brown knee-length boots and a blue sweater. For me, this is smart. I tuck
one of the escaped tendrils of my hair behind my ear as I pretend she doesn’t intimidate me.
“Miss Kavanagh is expected. Please sign in here, Miss Steele. You’ll want the last
elevator on the right, press for the twentieth floor.” She smiles kindly at me, amused no
doubt, as I sign in.
She hands me a security pass that has VISITOR very firmly stamped on the front. I
can’t help my smirk. Surely it’s obvious that I’m just visiting. I don’t fit in here at all.
Nothing changes, I inwardly sigh. Thanking her, I walk over to the bank of elevators pastthe two security men who are both far more smartly dressed than I am in their well-cut
black suits.
The elevator whisks me with terminal velocity to the twentieth floor. The doors slide
open, and I’m in another large lobby – again all glass, steel, and white sandstone. I’m
confronted by another desk of sandstone and another young blonde woman dressed impec-
cably in black and white who rises to greet me.
“Miss Steele, could you wait here, please?” She points to a seated area of white leather
chairs.
Behind the leather chairs is a spacious glass-walled meeting room with an equally spa-
cious dark wood table and at least twenty matching chairs around it. Beyond that, there is
a floor-to-ceiling window with a view of the Seattle skyline that looks out through the city
toward the Sound. It’s a stunning vista, and I’m momentarily paralyzed by the view. Wow.
I sit down, fish the questions from my satchel, and go through them, inwardly curs-
ing Kate for not providing me with a brief biography. I know nothing about this man I’m
about to interview. He could be ninety or he could be thirty. The uncertainty is galling,
and my nerves resurface, making me fidget. I’ve never been comfortable with one-on-one
interviews, preferring the anonymity of a group discussion where I can sit inconspicuously
at the back of the room. To be honest, I prefer my own company, reading a classic British
novel, curled up in a chair in the campus library. Not sitting twitching nervously in a colos-
sal glass and stone edifice.
I roll my eyes at myself. Get a grip, Steele. Judging from the building, which is too
clinical and modern, I guess Grey is in his forties: fit, tanned, and fair-haired to match the
rest of the personnel.
Another elegant, flawlessly dressed blonde comes out of a large door to the right. What
is it with all the immaculate blondes? It’s like Stepford here. Taking a deep breath, I stand
up.
“Miss Steele?” the latest blonde asks.
“Yes,” I croak, and clear my throat. “Yes.” There, that sounded more confident.
“Mr. Grey will see you in a moment. May I take your jacket?”
“Oh please.” I struggle out of the jacket.
“Have you been offered any refreshment?”
“Um – no.” Oh dear, is Blonde Number One in trouble?
Blonde Number Two frowns and eyes the young woman at the desk.
“Would you like tea, coffee, water?” she asks, turning her attention back to me.
“A glass of water. Thank you,” I murmur.
“Olivia, please fetch Miss Steele a glass of water.” Her voice is stern. Olivia scoots up
immediately and scurries to a door on the other side of the foyer.
“My apologies, Miss Steele, Olivia is our new intern. Please be seated. Mr. Grey will
be another five minutes.”
Olivia returns with a glass of iced water.
“Here you go, Miss Steele.”
“Thank you.”
Blonde Number Two marches over to the large desk, her heels clicking and echoing on
the sandstone floor. She sits down, and they both continue their work.Perhaps Mr. Grey insists on all his employees being blonde. I’m wondering idly if
that’s legal, when the office door opens and a tall, elegantly dressed, attractive African-
American man with short dreads exits. I have definitely worn the wrong clothes.
He turns and says through the door. “Golf, this week, Grey.”
I don’t hear the reply. He turns, sees me, and smiles, his dark eyes crinkling at the
corners. Olivia has jumped up and called the elevator. She seems to excel at jumping from
her seat. She’s more nervous than me!
“Good afternoon ladies,” he says as he departs through the sliding door.
“Mr. Grey will see you now, Miss Steele. Do go through,” Blonde Number Two says.
I stand rather shakily trying to suppress my nerves. Gathering up my satchel, I abandon my
glass of water and make my way to the partially open door.
“You don’t need to knock – just go in.” She smiles kindly.
I push open the door and stumble through, tripping over my own feet, and falling head
first into the office.
Double crap – me and my two left feet! I am on my hands and knees in the doorway
to Mr. Grey’s office, and gentle hands are around me helping me to stand. I am so em-
barrassed, damn my clumsiness. I have to steel myself to glance up. Holy cow – he’s so
young.
“Miss Kavanagh.” He extends a long-fingered hand to me once I’m upright. “I’m
Christian Grey. Are you all right? Would you like to sit?”
So young – and attractive, very attractive. He’s tall, dressed in a fine gray suit, white
shirt, and black tie with unruly dark copper colored hair and intense, bright gray eyes that
regard me shrewdly. It takes a moment for me to find my voice.
“Um. Actually–” I mutter. If this guy is over thirty then I’m a monkey’s uncle. In a
daze, I place my hand in his and we shake. As our fingers touch, I feel an odd exhilarating
shiver run through me. I withdraw my hand hastily, embarrassed. Must be static. I blink
rapidly, my eyelids matching my heart rate.
“Miss Kavanagh is indisposed, so she sent me. I hope you don’t mind, Mr. Grey.”
“And you are?” His voice is warm, possibly amused, but it’s difficult to tell from his
impassive expression. He looks mildly interested, but above all, polite.
“Anastasia Steele. I’m studying English Literature with Kate, um... Katherine...
um... Miss Kavanagh at Washington State.”
“I see,” he says simply. I think I see the ghost of a smile in his expression, but I’m not
sure.
“Would you like to sit?” He waves me toward a white leather buttoned L-shaped couch.
His office is way too big for just one man. In front of the floor-to-ceiling windows,
there’s a huge modern dark-wood desk that six people could comfortably eat around. It
matches the coffee table by the couch. Everything else is white – ceiling, floors, and walls
except, on the wall by the door, where a mosaic of small paintings hang, thirty-six of them
arranged in a square. They are exquisite – a series of mundane, forgotten objects painted in
such precise detail they look like photographs. Displayed together, they are breathtaking.
“A local artist. Trouton,” says Grey when he catches my gaze.
“They’re lovely. Raising the ordinary to extraordinary,” I murmur, distracted both by
him and the paintings. He cocks his head to one side and regards me intently.“I couldn’t agree more, Miss Steele,” he replies, his voice soft and for some inexpli-
cable reason I find myself blushing.
Apart from the paintings, the rest of the office is cold, clean, and clinical. I wonder if
it reflects the personality of the Adonis who sinks gracefully into one of the white leather
chairs opposite me. I shake my head, disturbed at the direction of my thoughts, and retrieve
Kate’s questions from my satchel. Next, I set up the mini-disc recorder and am all fingers
and thumbs, dropping it twice on the coffee table in front of me. Mr. Grey says nothing,
waiting patiently – I hope – as I become increasingly embarrassed and flustered. When I
pluck up the courage to look at him, he’s watching me, one hand relaxed in his lap and the
other cupping his chin and trailing his long index finger across his lips. I think he’s trying
to suppress a smile.
“Sorry,” I stutter. “I’m not used to this.”
“Take all the time you need, Miss Steele,” he says.
“Do you mind if I record your answers?”
“After you’ve taken so much trouble to set up the recorder – you ask me now?”
I flush. He’s teasing me? I hope. I blink at him, unsure what to say, and I think he
takes pity on me because he relents. “No, I don’t mind.”
“Did Kate, I mean, Miss Kavanagh, explain what the interview was for?”
“Yes. To appear in the graduation issue of the student newspaper as I shall be confer-
ring the degrees at this year’s graduation ceremony.”
Oh! This is news to me, and I’m temporarily pre-occupied by the thought that some-
one not much older than me – okay, maybe six years or so, and okay, mega successful, but
still – is going to present me with my degree. I frown, dragging my wayward attention
back to the task at hand.
“Good,” I swallow nervously. “I have some questions, Mr. Grey.” I smooth a stray
lock of hair behind my ear.
“I thought you might,” he says, deadpan. He’s laughing at me. My cheeks heat at the
realization, and I sit up and square my shoulders in an attempt to look taller and more in-
timidating. Pressing the start button on the recorder, I try to look professional.
“You’re very young to have amassed such an empire. To what do you owe your suc-
cess?” I glance up at him. His smile is rueful, but he looks vaguely disappointed.
“Business is all about people, Miss Steele, and I’m very good at judging people. I
know how they tick, what makes them flourish, what doesn’t, what inspires them, and how
to incentivize them. I employ an exceptional team, and I reward them well.” He pauses
and fixes me with his gray stare. “My belief is to achieve success in any scheme one has
to make oneself master of that scheme, know it inside and out, know every detail. I work
hard, very hard to do that. I make decisions based on logic and facts. I have a natural gut
instinct that can spot and nurture a good solid idea and good people. The bottom line is,
it’s always down to good people.”
“Maybe you’re just lucky.” This isn’t on Kate’s list – but he’s so arrogant. His eyes
flare momentarily in surprise.
“I don’t subscribe to luck or chance, Miss Steele. The harder I work the more luck I
seem to have. It really is all about having the right people on your team and directing theirenergies accordingly. I think it was Harvey Firestone who said ‘the growth and develop-
ment of people is the highest calling of leadership.’”
“You sound like a control freak.” The words are out of my mouth before I can stop
them.
“Oh, I exercise control in all things, Miss Steele,” he says without a trace of humor in
his smile. I look at him, and he holds my gaze steadily, impassive. My heartbeat quickens,
and my face flushes again.
Why does he have such an unnerving effect on me? His overwhelming good-looks
maybe? The way his eyes blaze at me? The way he strokes his index finger against his
lower lip? I wish he’d stop doing that.
“Besides, immense power is acquired by assuring yourself in your secret reveries that
you were born to control things,” he continues, his voice soft.
“Do you feel that you have immense power?” Control Freak.
“I employ over forty thousand people, Miss Steele. That gives me a certain sense of
responsibility – power, if you will. If I were to decide I was no longer interested in the
telecommunications business and sell up, twenty thousand people would struggle to make
their mortgage payments after a month or so.”
My mouth drops open. I am staggered by his lack of humility.
“Don’t you have a board to answer to?” I ask, disgusted.
“I own my company. I don’t have to answer to a board.” He raises an eyebrow at me.
I flush. Of course, I would know this if I had done some research. But holy crap, he’s so
arrogant. I change tack.
“And do you have any interests outside your work?”
“I have varied interests, Miss Steele.” A ghost of a smile touches his lips. “Very var-
ied.” And for some reason, I’m confounded and heated by his steady gaze. His eyes are
alight with some wicked thought.
“But if you work so hard, what do you do to chill out?”
“Chill out?” He smiles, revealing perfect white teeth. I stop breathing. He really is
beautiful. No one should be this good-looking.
“Well, to ‘chill out’ as you put it – I sail, I fly, I indulge in various physical pursuits.”
He shifts in his chair. “I’m a very wealthy man, Miss Steele, and I have expensive and
absorbing hobbies.”
I glance quickly at Kate’s questions, wanting to get off this subject.
“You invest in manufacturing. Why, specifically?” I ask. Why does he make me so
uncomfortable?
“I like to build things. I like to know how things work: what makes things tick, how to
construct and deconstruct. And I have a love of ships. What can I say?”
“That sounds like your heart talking rather than logic and facts.”
His mouth quirks up, and he stares appraisingly at me.
“Possibly. Though there are people who’d say I don’t have a heart.”
“Why would they say that?”
“Because they know me well.” His lip curls in a wry smile.
“Would your friends say you’re easy to get to know?” And I regret the question as soon
as I say it. It’s not on Kate’s list.“I’m a very private person, Miss Steele. I go a long way to protect my privacy. I don’t
often give interviews,” he trails off.
“Why did you agree to do this one?”
“Because I’m a benefactor of the University, and for all intents and purposes, I couldn’t
get Miss Kavanagh off my back. She badgered and badgered my PR people, and I admire
that kind of tenacity.”
I know how tenacious Kate can be. That’s why I’m sitting here squirming uncomfort-
ably under his penetrating gaze, when I should be studying for my exams.
“You also invest in farming technologies. Why are you interested in this area?”
“We can’t eat money, Miss Steele, and there are too many people on this planet who
don’t have enough to eat.”
“That sounds very philanthropic. Is it something you feel passionately about? Feeding
the world’s poor?”
He shrugs, very non-committal.
“It’s shrewd business,” he murmurs, though I think he’s being disingenuous. It doesn’t
make sense – feeding the world’s poor? I can’t see the financial benefits of this, only the
virtue of the ideal. I glance at the next question, confused by his attitude.
“Do you have a philosophy? If so, what is it?”
“I don’t have a philosophy as such. Maybe a guiding principle – Carnegie’s: ‘A man
who acquires the ability to take full possession of his own mind may take possession of
anything else to which he is justly entitled.’ I’m very singular, driven. I like control – of
myself and those around me.”
“So you want to possess things?” You are a control freak.
“I want to deserve to possess them, but yes, bottom line, I do.”
“You sound like the ultimate consumer.”
“I am.” He smiles, but the smile doesn’t touch his eyes. Again this is at odds with
someone who wants to feed the world, so I can’t help thinking that we’re talking about
something else, but I’m absolutely mystified as to what it is. I swallow hard. The tempera-
ture in the room is rising or maybe it’s just me. I just want this interview to be over. Surely
Kate has enough material now? I glance at the next question.
“You were adopted. How far do you think that’s shaped the way you are?” Oh, this is
personal. I stare at him, hoping he’s not offended. His brow furrows.
“I have no way of knowing.”
My interest is piqued.
“How old were you when you were adopted?”
“That’s a matter of public record, Miss Steele.” His tone is stern. I flush, again. Crap.
Yes of course – if I’d known I was doing this interview, I would have done some research.
I move on quickly.
“You’ve had to sacrifice a family life for your work.”
“That’s not a question.” He’s terse.
“Sorry.” I squirm, and he’s made me feel like an errant child. I try again. “Have you
had to sacrifice a family life for your work?”
“I have a family. I have a brother and a sister and two loving parents. I’m not inter-
ested in extending my family beyond that.”“Are you gay, Mr. Grey?”
He inhales sharply, and I cringe, mortified. Crap. Why didn’t I employ some kind
of filter before I read this straight out? How can I tell him I’m just reading the questions?
Damn Kate and her curiosity!
“No Anastasia, I’m not.” He raises his eyebrows, a cool gleam in his eyes. He does
not look pleased.
“I apologize. It’s um... written here.” It’s the first time he’s said my name. My heart-
beat has accelerated, and my cheeks are heating up again. Nervously, I tuck my loosened
hair behind my ear.
He cocks his head to one side.
“These aren’t your own questions?”
The blood drains from my head. Oh no.
“Err... no. Kate – Miss Kavanagh – she compiled the questions.”
“Are you colleagues on the student paper?” Oh crap. I have nothing to do with the
student paper. It’s her extra-curricular activity, not mine. My face is aflame.
“No. She’s my roommate.”
He rubs his chin in quiet deliberation, his gray eyes appraising me.
“Did you volunteer to do this interview?” he asks, his voice deadly quiet.
Hang on, who’s supposed to be interviewing whom? His eyes burn into me, and I’m
compelled to answer with the truth.
“I was drafted. She’s not well.” My voice is weak and apologetic.
“That explains a great deal.”
There’s a knock at the door, and Blonde Number Two enters.
“Mr. Grey, forgive me for interrupting, but your next meeting is in two minutes.”
“We’re not finished here, Andrea. Please cancel my next meeting.”
Andrea hesitates, gaping at him. She’s appears lost. He turns his head slowly to face
her and raises his eyebrows. She flushes bright pink. Oh good. It’s not just me.
“Very well, Mr. Grey,” she mutters, then exits. He frowns, and turns his attention back
to me.
“Where were we, Miss Steele?”
Oh, we’re back to ‘Miss Steele’ now.
“Please don’t let me keep you from anything.”
“I want to know about you. I think that’s only fair.” His gray eyes are alight with cu-
riosity. Double crap. Where’s he going with this? He places his elbows on the arms of
the chair and steeples his fingers in front of his mouth. His mouth is very... distracting. I
swallow.
“There’s not much to know,” I say, flushing again.
“What are your plans after you graduate?”
I shrug, thrown by his interest. Come to Seattle with Kate, find a place, find a job. I
haven’t really thought beyond my finals.
“I haven’t made any plans, Mr. Grey. I just need to get through my final exams.”
Which I should be studying for now rather than sitting in your palatial, swanky, sterile of-
fice, feeling uncomfortable under your penetrating gaze.“We run an excellent internship program here,” he says quietly. I raise my eyebrows
in surprise. Is he offering me a job?
“Oh. I’ll bear that in mind,” I murmur, completely confounded. “Though I’m not sure
I’d fit in here.” Oh no. I’m musing out loud again.
“Why do you say that?” He cocks his head to one side, intrigued, a hint of a smile
playing on his lips.
“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” I’m uncoordinated, scruffy, and I’m not blonde.
“Not to me,” he murmurs. His gaze is intense, all humor gone, and strange muscles
deep in my belly clench suddenly. I tear my eyes away from his scrutiny and stare blindly
down at my knotted fingers. What’s going on? I have to go – now. I lean forward to re-
trieve the recorder.
“Would you like me to show you around?” he asks.
“I’m sure you’re far too busy, Mr. Grey, and I do have a long drive.”
“You’re driving back to WSU in Vancouver?” He sounds surprised, anxious even. He
glances out of the window. It’s begun to rain. “Well, you’d better drive carefully.” His tone
is stern, authoritative. Why should he care? “Did you get everything you need?” he adds.
“Yes sir,” I reply, packing the recorder into my satchel. His eyes narrow, speculatively.
“Thank you for the interview, Mr. Grey.”
“The pleasure’s been all mine,” he says, polite as ever.
As I rise, he stands and holds out his hand.
“Until we meet again, Miss Steele.” And it sounds like a challenge, or a threat, I’m
not sure which. I frown. When will we ever meet again? I shake his hand once more,
astounded that that odd current between us is still there. It must be my nerves.
“Mr. Grey.” I nod at him. Moving with lithe athletic grace to the door, he opens it wide.
“Just ensuring you make it through the door, Miss Steele.” He gives me a small smile.
Obviously, he’s referring to my earlier less-than-elegant entry into his office. I flush.
“That’s very considerate, Mr. Grey,” I snap, and his smile widens. I’m glad you find
me entertaining, I glower inwardly, walking into the foyer. I’m surprised when he follows
me out. Andrea and Olivia both look up, equally surprised.
“Did you have a coat?” Grey asks.
“Yes.” Olivia leaps up and retrieves my jacket, which Grey takes from her before she
can hand it to me. He holds it up and, feeling ridiculously self-conscious, I shrug it on.
Grey places his hands for a moment on my shoulders. I gasp at the contact. If he notices
my reaction, he gives nothing away. His long index finger presses the button summoning
the elevator, and we stand waiting – awkwardly on my part, coolly self-possessed on his.
The doors open, and I hurry in desperate to escape. I really need to get out of here. When
I turn to look at him, he’s leaning against the doorway beside the elevator with one hand
on the wall. He really is very, very good-looking. It’s distracting. His burning gray eyes
gaze at me.
“Anastasia,” he says as a farewell.
“Christian,” I reply. And mercifully, the doors close.My heart is pounding. The elevator arrives on the first floor, and I scramble out as soon as
the doors slide open, stumbling once, but fortunately not sprawling on to the immaculate
sandstone floor. I race for the wide glass doors, and I’m free in the bracing, cleansing,
damp air of Seattle. Raising my face, I welcome the cool refreshing rain. I close my eyes
and take a deep, purifying breath, trying to recover what’s left of my equilibrium.
No man has ever affected me the way Christian Grey has, and I cannot fathom why.
Is it his looks? His civility? Wealth? Power? I don’t understand my irrational reaction.
I breathe an enormous sigh of relief. What in heaven’s name was that all about? Leaning
against one of the steel pillars of the building, I valiantly attempt to calm down and gather
my thoughts. I shake my head. Holy crap – what was that? My heart steadies to its regular
rhythm, and I can breathe normally again. I head for the car.
As I leave the city limits behind, I begin to feel foolish and embarrassed as I replay the
interview in my mind. Surely, I’m over-reacting to something that’s imaginary. Okay, so
he’s very attractive, confident, commanding, at ease with himself – but on the flip side, he’s
arrogant, and for all his impeccable manners, he’s autocratic and cold. Well, on the surface.
An involuntary shiver runs down my spine. He may be arrogant, but then he has a right to
be – he’s accomplished so much at such a young age. He doesn’t suffer fools gladly, but
why should he? Again, I’m irritated that Kate didn’t give me a brief biography.While cruising along the I-5, my mind continues to wander. I’m truly perplexed as to
what makes someone so driven to succeed. Some of his answers were so cryptic – as if
he had a hidden agenda. And Kate’s questions – ugh! The adoption and asking him if he
was gay! I shudder. I can’t believe I said that. Ground, swallow me up now! Every time
I think of that question in the future, I will cringe with embarrassment. Damn Katherine
Kavanagh!
I check the speedometer. I’m driving more cautiously than I would on any other occa-
sion. And I know it’s the memory of two penetrating gray eyes gazing at me, and a stern
voice telling me to drive carefully. Shaking my head, I realize that Grey’s more like a man
double his age.
Forget it, Ana, I scold myself. I decide that all in all, it’s been a very interesting expe-
rience, but I shouldn’t dwell on it. Put it behind you. I never have to see him again. I’m
immediately cheered by the thought. I switch on the MP3 player and turn the volume up
loud, sit back, and listen to thumping indie rock music as I press down on the accelerator.
As I hit the 1-5, I realize I can drive as fast as I want.
We live in a small community of duplex apartments in Vancouver, Washington, close to the
Vancouver campus of WSU. I’m lucky – Kate’s parents bought the place for her, and I pay
peanuts for rent. It’s been home for four years now. As I pull up outside, I know Kate is go-
ing to want a blow-by-blow account, and she is tenacious. Well, at least she has the mini-
disc. Hopefully I won’t have to elaborate much beyond what was said during the interview.
“Ana! You’re back.” Kate sits in our living area, surrounded by books. She’s clearly
been studying for finals – though she’s still in her pink flannel pajamas decorated with cute
little rabbits, the ones she reserves for the aftermath of breaking up with boyfriends, for
assorted illnesses, and for general moody depression. She bounds up to me and hugs me
hard.
“I was beginning to worry. I expected you back sooner.”
“Oh, I thought I made good time considering the interview ran over.” I wave the mini-
disc recorder at her.
“Ana, thank you so much for doing this. I owe you, I know. How was it? What was
he like?” Oh no – here we go, the Katherine Kavanagh Inquisition.
I struggle to answer her question. What can I say?
“I’m glad it’s over, and I don’t have to see him again. He was rather intimidating, you
know.” I shrug. “He’s very focused, intense even – and young. Really young.”
Kate gazes innocently at me. I frown at her.
“Don’t you look so innocent. Why didn’t you give me a biography? He made me feel
like such an idiot for skimping on basic research.” Kate clamps a hand to her mouth.
“Jeez, Ana, I’m sorry – I didn’t think.”
I huff.
“Mostly he was courteous, formal, slightly stuffy – like he’s old before his time. He
doesn’t talk like a man of twenty-something. How old is he anyway?”
“Twenty-seven. Jeez, Ana, I’m sorry. I should have briefed you, but I was in such a
panic. Let me have the mini-disc, and I’ll start transcribing the interview.”“You look better. Did you eat your soup?” I ask, keen to change the subject.
“Yes, and it was delicious as usual. I’m feeling much better.” She smiles at me in grati-
tude. I check my watch.
“I have to run. I can still make my shift at Clayton’s.”
“Ana, you’ll be exhausted.”
“I’ll be fine. I’ll see you later.”
I’ve worked at Clayton’s since I started at WSU. It’s the largest independent hardware
store in the Portland area, and over the four years I’ve worked here, I’ve come to know a
little bit about most everything we sell – although ironically, I’m crap at any DIY. I leave
all that to my dad. I’m much more of a curl-up-with-a-book-in-a-comfy-chair-by-the-fire
kind of girl. I’m glad I can make my shift as it gives me something to focus on that isn’t
Christian Grey. We’re busy – it’s the start of the summer season, and folks are redecorating
their homes. Mrs. Clayton is pleased to see me.
“Ana! I thought you weren’t going to make it today.”
“My appointment didn’t take as long as I thought. I can do a couple of hours.”
“I’m real pleased to see you.”
She sends me to the storeroom to start re-stocking shelves, and I’m soon absorbed in
the task.
When I arrive home later, Katherine is wearing headphones and working on her laptop.
Her nose is still pink, but she has her teeth into a story, so she’s concentrating and typing
furiously. I’m thoroughly drained – exhausted by the long drive, the grueling interview,
and by being rushed off my feet at Clayton’s. I slump on to the couch, thinking about the
essay I have to finish and all the studying I haven’t done today because I was holed up
with... him.
“You’ve got some good stuff here, Ana. Well done. I can’t believe you didn’t take him
up on his offer to show you around. He obviously wanted to spend more time with you.”
She gives me a fleeting quizzical look.
I flush, and my heart rate inexplicably increases. That wasn’t the reason, surely? He
just wanted to show me around so I could see that he was lord of all he surveyed. I realize
I’m biting my lip, and I hope Kate doesn’t notice. But she seems absorbed in her transcrip-
tion.
“I hear what you mean about formal. Did you take any notes?” she asks.
“Um... no, I didn’t.”
“That’s fine. I can still make a fine article with this. Shame we don’t have some origi-
nal stills. Good-looking son of a bitch, isn’t he?”
I flush.
“I suppose so.” I try hard to sound disinterested, and I think I succeed.
“Oh come on, Ana – even you can’t be immune to his looks.” She arches a perfect
eyebrow at me.
Crap! I distract her with flattery, always a good ploy.“You probably would have got a lot more out of him.”
“I doubt that, Ana. Come on – he practically offered you a job. Given that I foisted this
on you at the last minute, you did very well.” She glances up at me speculatively. I make
a hasty retreat into the kitchen.
“So what did you really think of him?” Damn, she’s inquisitive. Why can’t she just let
this go? Think of something – quick.
“He’s very driven, controlling, arrogant – scary really, but very charismatic. I can un-
derstand the fascination,” I add truthfully, as I peer round the door at her hoping this will
shut her up once and for all.
“You, fascinated by a man? That’s a first,” she snorts.
I start gathering the makings of a sandwich so she can’t see my face.
“Why did you want to know if he was gay? Incidentally, that was the most embarrass-
ing question. I was mortified, and he was pissed to be asked too.” I scowl at the memory.
“Whenever he’s in the society pages, he never has a date.”
“It was embarrassing. The whole thing was embarrassing. I’m glad I’ll never have to
lay eyes on him again.”
“Oh, Ana, it can’t have been that bad. I think he sounds quite taken with you.”
Taken with me? Now Kate’s being ridiculous.
“Would you like a sandwich?”
“Please.”
We talk no more of Christian Grey that evening, much to my relief. Once we’ve eaten,
I’m able to sit at the dining table with Kate and, while she works on her article, I work on
my essay on Tess of the D’Urbervilles. Damn, but that woman was in the wrong place at
the wrong time in the wrong century. By the time I finish, it’s midnight, and Kate has long
since gone to bed. I make my way to my room, exhausted, but pleased that I’ve accom-
plished so much for a Monday.
I curl up in my white iron bed, wrapping my mother’s quilt around me, close my eyes,
and I’m instantly asleep. That night I dream of dark places, bleak white cold floors, and
gray eyes.
For the rest of the week, I throw myself into my studies and my job at Clayton’s. Kate is
busy too, compiling her last edition of her student magazine before she has to relinquish
it to the new editor while also cramming for her finals. By Wednesday, she’s much better,
and I no longer have to endure the sight of her pink-flannel-with-too-many-rabbits PJs. I
call my mom in Georgia to check on her, but also so she can wish me luck for my final ex-
ams. She proceeds to tell me about her latest venture into candle making – my mother is all
about new business ventures. Fundamentally she’s bored and wants something to occupy
her time, but she has the attention span of a goldfish. It’ll be something new next week.
She worries me. I hope she hasn’t mortgaged the house to finance this latest scheme. And I
hope that Bob – her relatively new but much older husband – is keeping an eye on her now
that I’m no longer there. He does seem a lot more grounded than Husband Number Three.“How are things with you, Ana?”
For a moment, I hesitate, and I have Mom’s full attention.
“I’m fine.”
“Ana? Have you met someone?” Wow... how does she do that? The excitement in her
voice is palpable.
“No, Mom, it’s nothing. You’ll be the first to know if I do.”
“Ana, you really need to get out more, honey. You worry me.”
“Mom, I’m fine. How’s Bob?” As ever, distraction is the best policy.
Later that evening, I call Ray, my stepdad, Mom’s Husband Number Two, the man I
consider my father, and the man whose name I bear. It’s a brief conversation. In fact, it’s
not so much a conversation as a one-sided series of grunts in response to my gentle coax-
ing. Ray is not a talker. But he’s still alive, he’s still watching soccer on TV, and going
bowling and fly-fishing or making furniture when he’s not. Ray is a skilled carpenter and
the reason I know the difference between a hawk and a handsaw. All seems well with him.
Friday night, Kate and I are debating what to do with our evening – we want some time out
from our studies, from our work, and from student newspapers – when the doorbell rings.
Standing on our doorstep is my good friend José, clutching a bottle of champagne.
“José! Great to see you!” I give him a quick hug. “Come in.”
José is the first person I met when I arrived at WSU, looking as lost and lonely as I did.
We recognized a kindred spirit in each of us that day, and we’ve been friends ever since.
Not only do we share a sense of humor, but we discovered that both Ray and José Senior
were in the same army unit together. As a result, our fathers have become firm friends too.
José is studying engineering and is the first in his family to make it to college. He’s
pretty damn bright, but his real passion is photography. José has a great eye for a good
picture.
“I have news.” He grins, his dark eyes twinkling.
“Don’t tell me – you’ve managed not to get kicked out for another week,” I tease, and
he scowls playfully at me.
“The Portland Place Gallery is going to exhibit my photos next month.”
“That’s amazing – congratulations!” Delighted for him, I hug him again. Kate beams
at him too.
“Way to go José! I should put this in the paper. Nothing like last minute editorial
changes on a Friday evening.” She grins.
“Let’s celebrate. I want you to come to the opening.” José looks intently at me. I flush.
“Both of you, of course,” he adds, glancing nervously at Kate.
José and I are good friends, but I know deep down inside, he’d like to be more. He’s
cute and funny, but he’s just not for me. He’s more like the brother I never had. Katherine
often teases me that I’m missing the need-a-boyfriend gene, but the truth is – I just haven’t
met anyone who... well, whom I’m attracted to, even though part of me longs for those
trembling knees, heart-in-my-mouth, butterflies-in-my-belly, sleepless nights.Sometimes I wonder if there’s something wrong with me. Perhaps I’ve spent too long
in the company of my literary romantic heroes, and consequently my ideals and expecta-
tions are far too high. But in reality, nobody’s ever made me feel like that.
Until very recently, the unwelcome, still small voice of my subconscious whispers.
NO! I banish the thought immediately. I am not going there, not after that painful inter-
view. Are you gay, Mr. Grey? I wince at the memory. I know I’ve dreamt about him most
nights since then, but that’s just to purge the awful experience from my system, surely?
I watch José open the bottle of champagne. He’s tall, and in his jeans and t-shirt he’s
all shoulders and muscles, tanned skin, dark hair and burning dark eyes. Yes, José’s pretty
hot, but I think he’s finally getting the message: we’re just friends. The cork makes its loud
pop, and José looks up and smiles.
Saturday at the store is a nightmare. We are besieged by do-it-yourselfers wanting to
spruce up their homes. Mr. and Mrs. Clayton, John and Patrick – the two other part-timers
– and I are all rushed off our feet. But there’s a lull around lunchtime, and Mrs. Clayton
asks me to check on some orders while I’m sitting behind the counter at the till discreetly
eating my bagel. I’m engrossed in the task, checking catalogue numbers against the items
we need and the items we’ve ordered, eyes flicking from the order book to the computer
screen and back as I check the entries match. Then, for some reason, I glance up... and
find myself locked in the bold gray gaze of Christian Grey who’s standing at the counter,
staring at me intently.
Heart failure.
“Miss Steele. What a pleasant surprise.” His gaze is unwavering and intense.
Holy crap. What the hell is he doing here looking all tousled-hair and outdoorsy in his
cream chunky-knit sweater, jeans, and walking boots? I think my mouth has popped open,
and I can’t locate my brain or my voice.
“Mr. Grey,” I whisper, because that’s all I can manage. There’s a ghost of a smile on
his lips and his eyes are alight with humor, as if he’s enjoying some private joke.
“I was in the area,” he says by way of explanation. “I need to stock up on a few things.
It’s a pleasure to see you again, Miss Steele.” His voice is warm and husky like dark
melted chocolate fudge caramel... or something.
I shake my head to gather my wits. My heart is pounding a frantic tattoo, and for
some reason I’m blushing furiously under his steady scrutiny. I am utterly thrown by the
sight of him standing before me. My memories of him did not do him justice. He’s not
merely good-looking – he’s the epitome of male beauty, breathtaking, and he’s here. Here
in Clayton’s Hardware Store. Go figure. Finally my cognitive functions are restored and
reconnected with the rest of my body.
“Ana. My name’s Ana,” I mutter. “What can I help you with, Mr. Grey?”
He smiles, and again it’s like he’s privy to some big secret. It is so disconcerting. Tak-
ing a deep breath, I put on my professional I’ve-worked-in-this-shop-for-years façade. I
can do this.
“There are a few items I need. To start with, I’d like some cable ties,” he murmurs, his
gray eyes cool but amused.Cable ties?
“We stock various lengths. Shall I show you?” I mutter, my voice soft and wavery.
Get a grip, Steele. A slight frown mars Grey’s rather lovely brow.
“Please. Lead the way, Miss Steele,” he says. I try for nonchalance as I come out from
behind the counter, but really I’m concentrating hard on not falling over my own feet – my
legs are suddenly the consistency of Jell-O. I’m so glad I decided to wear my best jeans
this morning.
“They’re in with the electrical goods, aisle eight.” My voice is a little too bright. I
glance up at him and regret it almost immediately. Damn, he’s handsome. I blush.
“After you,” he murmurs, gesturing with his long-fingered, beautifully manicured
hand.
With my heart almost strangling me – because it’s in my throat trying to escape from
my mouth – I head down one of the aisles to the electrical section. Why is he in Portland?
Why is he here at Clayton’s? And from a very tiny, underused part of my brain – probably
located at the base of my medulla oblongata where my subconscious dwells – comes the
thought: he’s here to see you. No way! I dismiss it immediately. Why would this beauti-
ful, powerful, urbane man want to see me? The idea is preposterous, and I kick it out of
my head.
“Are you in Portland on business?” I ask, and my voice is too high, like I’ve got my
finger trapped in a door or something. Damn! Try to be cool Ana!
“I was visiting the WSU farming division. It’s based at Vancouver. I’m currently fund-
ing some research there in crop rotation and soil science,” he says matter-of-factly. See?
Not here to find you at all, my subconscious sneers at me, loud, proud, and pouty. I flush
at my foolish wayward thoughts.
“All part of your feed-the-world plan?” I tease.
“Something like that,” he acknowledges, and his lips quirk up in a half smile.
He gazes at the selection of cable ties we stock at Clayton’s. What on Earth is he going
to do with those? I cannot picture him as a do-it-yourselfer at all. His fingers trail across
the various packages displayed, and for some inexplicable reason, I have to look away. He
bends and selects a packet.
“These will do,” he says with his oh-so-secret smile, and I blush.
“Is there anything else?”
“I’d like some masking tape.”
Masking tape?
“Are you redecorating?” The words are out before I can stop them. Surely he hires
laborers or has staff to help him decorate?
“No, not redecorating,” he says quickly then smirks, and I have the uncanny feeling
that he’s laughing at me.
Am I that funny? Funny looking?
“This way,” I murmur embarrassed. “Masking tape is in the decorating aisle.”
I glance behind me as he follows.
“Have you worked here long?” His voice is low, and he’s gazing at me, gray eyes con-
centrating hard. I blush even more brightly. Why the hell does he have this effect on me?
I feel like I’m fourteen years old – gauche, as always, and out of place. Eyes front Steele!“Four years,” I mutter as we reach our goal. To distract myself, I reach down and select
the two widths of masking tape that we stock.
“I’ll take that one,” Grey says softly pointing to the wider tape, which I pass to him.
Our fingers brush very briefly, and the current is there again, zapping through me like I’ve
touched an exposed wire. I gasp involuntarily as I feel it, all the way down to somewhere
dark and unexplored, deep in my belly. Desperately, I scrabble around for my equilibrium.
“Anything else?” My voice is husky and breathy. His eyes widen slightly.
“Some rope, I think.” His voice mirrors mine, husky.
“This way.” I duck my head down to hide my recurring blush and head for the aisle.
“What sort were you after? We have synthetic and natural filament rope... twine...
cable cord... ” I halt at his expression, his eyes darkening. Holy cow.
“I’ll take five yards of the natural filament rope please.”
Quickly, with trembling fingers, I measure out five yards against the fixed ruler, aware
that his hot gray gaze is on me. I dare not look at him. Jeez, could I feel any more self-
conscious? Taking my Stanley knife from the back pocket of my jeans, I cut it then coil it
neatly before tying it in a slipknot. By some miracle, I manage not to remove a finger with
my knife.
“Were you a Girl Scout?” he asks, sculptured, sensual lips curled in amusement. Don’t
look at his mouth!
“Organized, group activities aren’t really my thing, Mr. Grey.”
He arches a brow.
“What is your thing, Anastasia?” he asks, his voice soft and his secret smile is back. I
gaze at him unable to express myself. I’m on shifting tectonic plates. Try and be cool, Ana,
my tortured subconscious begs on bended knee.
“Books,” I whisper, but inside, my subconscious is screaming: You! You are my thing!
I slap it down instantly, mortified that my psyche is having ideas above its station.
“What kind of books?” He cocks his head to one side. Why is he so interested?
“Oh, you know. The usual. The classics. British literature, mainly.”
He rubs his chin with his long index finger and thumb as he contemplates my answer.
Or perhaps he’s just very bored and trying to hide it.
“Anything else you need?” I have to get off this subject – those fingers on that face are
so beguiling.
“I don’t know. What else would you recommend?”
What would I recommend? I don’t even know what you’re doing.
“For a do-it-yourselfer?”
He nods, gray eyes alive with wicked humor. I flush, and my eyes stray of their own
accord to his snug jeans.
“Coveralls,” I reply, and I know I’m no longer screening what’s coming out of my
mouth.
He raises an eyebrow, amused, yet again.
“You wouldn’t want to ruin your clothing,” I gesture vaguely in the direction of his
jeans.
“I could always take them off.” He smirks.“Um.” I feel the color in my cheeks rising again. I must be the color of the communist
manifesto. Stop talking. Stop talking NOW.
“I’ll take some coveralls. Heaven forbid I should ruin any clothing,” he says dryly.
I try and dismiss the unwelcome image of him without jeans.
“Do you need anything else?” I squeak as I hand him the blue coveralls.
He ignores my inquiry.
“How’s the article coming along?”
He’s finally asked me a normal question, away from all the innuendo and the confusing
double talk... a question I can answer. I grasp it tightly with two hands as if were a life
raft, and I go for honesty.
“I’m not writing it, Katherine is. Miss Kavanagh. My roommate, she’s the writer.
She’s very happy with it. She’s the editor of the magazine, and she was devastated that
she couldn’t do the interview in person.” I feel like I’ve come up for air – at last, a normal
topic of conversation. “Her only concern is that she doesn’t have any original photographs
of you.”
Grey raises an eyebrow.
“What sort of photographs does she want?”
Okay. I hadn’t factored in this response. I shake my head, because I just don’t know.
“Well, I’m around. Tomorrow, perhaps... ” he trails off.
“You’d be willing to attend a photo shoot?” My voice is squeaky again. Kate will be
in seventh heaven if I can pull this off. And you might see him again tomorrow, that dark
place at the base of my brain whispers seductively at me. I dismiss the thought – of all the
silly, ridiculous...
“Kate will be delighted – if we can find a photographer.” I’m so pleased, I smile at him
broadly. His lips part, like he’s taking a sharp intake of breath, and he blinks. For a fraction
of a second, he looks lost somehow, and the Earth shifts slightly on its axis, the tectonic
plates sliding into a new position.
Oh my. Christian Grey’s lost look.
“Let me know about tomorrow.” Reaching into his back pocket, he pulls out his wal-
let. “My card. It has my cell number on it. You’ll need to call before ten in the morning.”
“Okay.” I grin up at him. Kate is going to be thrilled.
“ANA!”
Paul has materialized at other the end of the aisle. He’s Mr. Clayton’s youngest broth-
er. I’d heard he was home from Princeton, but I wasn’t expecting to see him today.
“Er, excuse me for a moment, Mr. Grey.” Grey frowns as I turn away from him.
Paul has always been a buddy, and in this strange moment that I’m having with the
rich, powerful, awesomely off-the-scale attractive control-freak Grey, it’s great to talk to
someone who’s normal. Paul hugs me hard taking me by surprise.
“Ana, hi, it’s so good to see you!” he gushes.
“Hello Paul, how are you? You home for your brother’s birthday?”
“Yep. You’re looking well, Ana, really well.” He grins as he examines me at arm’s
length. Then he releases me but keeps a possessive arm draped over my shoulder. I shuffle
from foot to foot, embarrassed. It’s good to see Paul, but he’s always been over-familiar.When I glance up at Christian Grey, he’s watching us like a hawk, his gray eyes hooded
and speculative, his mouth a hard impassive line. He’s changed from the weirdly attentive
customer to someone else – someone cold and distant.
“Paul, I’m with a customer. Someone you should meet,” I say, trying to defuse the
antagonism I see in Grey’s eyes. I drag Paul over to meet him, and they weigh each other
up. The atmosphere is suddenly arctic.
“Er, Paul, this is Christian Grey. Mr. Grey, this is Paul Clayton. His brother owns the
place.” And for some irrational reason, I feel I have to explain a bit more.
“I’ve known Paul ever since I’ve worked here, though we don’t see each other that
often. He’s back from Princeton where he’s studying business administration.” I’m bab-
bling... Stop, now!
“Mr. Clayton.” Christian holds his hand out, his look unreadable.
“Mr. Grey,” Paul returns his handshake. “Wait up – not the Christian Grey? Of Grey
Enterprises Holdings?” Paul goes from surly to awestruck in less than a nanosecond. Grey
gives him a polite smile that doesn’t reach his eyes.
“Wow – is there anything I can get you?”
“Anastasia has it covered, Mr. Clayton. She’s been very attentive.” His expression is
impassive, but his words... it’s like he’s saying something else entirely. It’s baffling.
“Cool,” Paul responds. “Catch you later, Ana.”
“Sure, Paul.” I watch him disappear toward the stock room. “Anything else, Mr.
Grey?”
“Just these items.” His tone is clipped and cool. Damn... have I offended him? Tak-
ing a deep breath, I turn and head for the till. What is his problem?
I ring up the rope, coveralls, masking tape, and cable ties at the till.
“That will be forty-three dollars, please.” I glance up at Grey, and I wish I hadn’t. He’s
watching me closely, his gray eyes intense and smoky. It’s unnerving.
“Would you like a bag?” I ask as I take his credit card.
“Please, Anastasia.” His tongue caresses my name, and my heart once again is frantic.
I can hardly breathe. Hurriedly, I place his purchases in a plastic carrier.
“You’ll call me if you want me to do the photo shoot?” He’s all business once more. I
nod, rendered speechless yet again, and hand back his credit card.
“Good. Until tomorrow perhaps.” He turns to leave, then pauses. “Oh – and Anastasia,
I’m glad Miss Kavanagh couldn’t do the interview.” He smiles, then strides with renewed
purpose out of the store, slinging the plastic bag over his shoulder, leaving me a quiver-
ing mass of raging female hormones. I spend several minutes staring at the closed door
through which he’s just left before I return to planet Earth.
Okay – I like him. There, I’ve admitted it to myself. I cannot hide from my feelings
anymore. I’ve never felt like this before. I find him attractive, very attractive. But it’s a
lost cause, I know, and I sigh with bittersweet regret. It was just a coincidence, his coming
here. But still, I can admire him from afar, surely? No harm can come of that. And if I find
a photographer, I can do some serious admiring tomorrow. I bite my lip in anticipation and
find myself grinning like a schoolgirl. I need to phone Kate and organize a photo-shoot.Kate is ecstatic.
“But what was he doing at Clayton’s?” Her curiosity oozes through the phone. I’m in
the depths of the stock room, trying to keep my voice casual.
“He was in the area.”
“I think that is one huge coincidence, Ana. You don’t think he was there to see you?”
she speculates. My heart lurches at the prospect, but it’s a short-lived joy. The dull, disap-
pointing reality is that he was here on business.
“He was visiting the farming division of WSU. He’s funding some research,” I mutter.
“Oh yes. He’s given the department a $2.5 million grant.”
Wow.
“How do you know this?”
“Ana, I’m a journalist, and I’ve written a profile on the guy. It’s my job to know this.”
“Okay, Carla Bernstein, keep your hair on. So do you want these photos?”
“Of course I do. The question is, who’s going to do them and where.”
“We could ask him where. He says he’s staying in the area.”
“You can contact him?”
“I have his cell phone number.”
Kate gasps.“The richest, most elusive, most enigmatic bachelor in Washington State, just gave you
his cell phone number.”
“Er... yes.”
“Ana! He likes you. No doubt about it.” Her tone is emphatic.
“Kate, he’s just trying to be nice.” But even as I say the words, I know they’re not true
– Christian Grey doesn’t do nice. He does polite, maybe. And a small quiet voice whis-
pers, perhaps Kate is right. My scalp prickles at the idea that maybe, just maybe, he might
like me. After all, he did say he was glad Kate didn’t do the interview. I hug myself with
quiet glee, rocking from side to side, entertaining the possibility that he might like me for
one brief moment. Kate brings me back to the now.
“I don’t know who we’ll get to do the shoot. Levi, our regular photographer, can’t.
He’s home in Idaho Falls for the weekend. He’ll be pissed that he blew an opportunity to
photo one of America’s leading entrepreneurs.”
“Hmm... What about José?”
“Great idea! You ask him – he’ll do anything for you. Then call Grey and find out
where he wants us.” Kate is irritatingly cavalier about José.
“I think you should call him.”
“Who, José?” Kate scoffs.
“No, Grey.”
“Ana, you’re the one with the relationship.”
“Relationship?” I squeak at her, my voice rising several octaves. “I barely know the
guy.”
“At least you’ve met him,” she says bitterly. “And it looks like he wants to know you
better. Ana, just call him,” she snaps and hangs up. She is so bossy sometimes. I frown at
my cell, sticking my tongue out at it.
I’m just leaving a message for José when Paul enters the stock room looking for sand-
paper.
“We’re kind of busy out there, Ana,” he says without acrimony.
“Yeah, um, sorry,” I mutter, turning to leave.
“So, how come you know Christian Grey?” Paul’s voice is unconvincingly nonchalant.
“I had to interview him for our student newspaper. Kate wasn’t well.” I shrug, trying
to sound casual and doing no better than him.
“Christian Grey in Clayton’s. Go figure,” Paul snorts, amazed. He shakes his head as
if to clear it. “Anyway, want to grab a drink or something this evening?”
Whenever he’s home he asks me on a date, and I always say no. It’s a ritual. I’ve never
considered it a good idea to date the boss’s brother, and besides, Paul is cute in a whole-
some all-American boy-next-door kind of way, but he’s no literary hero, not by any stretch
of the imagination. Is Grey? My subconscious asks me, her eyebrow figuratively raised.
I slap her down.
“Don’t you have a family dinner or something for your brother?”
“That’s tomorrow.”
“Maybe some other time, Paul. I need to study tonight. I have my finals next week.”
“Ana, one of these days, you’ll say yes,” he smiles as I escape out to the store floor.“But I do places, Ana, not people,” José groans.
“José, please?” I beg. Clutching my cell, I pace the living area of our apartment, star-
ing out of the window at the fading evening light.
“Give me that phone.” Kate grabs the handset from me, tossing her silken red-blonde
hair over her shoulder.
“Listen here, José Rodriquez, if you want our newspaper to cover the opening of your
show, you’ll do this shoot for us tomorrow, capiche?” Kate can be awesomely tough.
“Good. Ana will call back with the location and the call time. We’ll see you tomor-
row.” She snaps my cell phone shut.
“Sorted. All we need to do now is decide where and when. Call him.” She holds the
phone out to me. My stomach twists.
“Call Grey, now!”
I scowl at her and reach into my back pocket for his business card. I take a deep,
steadying breath, and with shaking fingers, I dial the number.
He answers on the second ring. His tone is clipped, calm and cold.
“Grey.”
“Err... Mr. Grey? It’s Anastasia Steele.” I don’t recognize my own voice, I’m so ner-
vous. There’s a brief pause. Inside I’m quaking.
“Miss Steele. How nice to hear from you.” His voice has changed. He’s surprised, I
think, and he sounds so... warm – seductive even. My breath hitches, and I flush. I’m sud-
denly conscious that Katherine Kavanagh is staring at me, her mouth open, and I dart into
the kitchen to avoid her unwanted scrutiny.
“Err – we’d like to go ahead with the photo-shoot for the article.” Breathe, Ana, breathe.
My lungs drag in a hasty breath. “Tomorrow, if that’s okay. Where would be convenient
for you, sir?”
I can almost hear his sphinx-like smile through the phone.
“I’m staying at the Heathman in Portland. Shall we say, nine thirty tomorrow morn-
ing?”
“Okay, we’ll see you there.” I am all gushing and breathy – like a child, not a grown
woman who can vote and drink legally in the State of Washington.
“I look forward to it, Miss Steele.” I visualize the wicked gleam in his gray eyes. How
can he make seven little words hold so much tantalizing promise? I hang up. Kate is in the
kitchen, and she’s staring at me with a look of complete and utter consternation on her face.
“Anastasia Rose Steele. You like him! I’ve never seen or heard you so, so... affected
by anyone before. You’re actually blushing.”
“Oh Kate, you know I blush all the time. It’s an occupational hazard with me. Don’t
be so ridiculous,” I snap. She blinks at me with surprise – I very rarely throw my toys out
of the pram – and I briefly relent. “I just find him... intimidating, that’s all.”
“Heathman, that figures,” mutters Kate. “I’ll give the manager a call and negotiate a
space for the shoot.”
“I’ll make supper. Then I need to study.” I cannot hide my irritation with her as I open
one of cupboards to make supper.I am restless that night, tossing and turning. Dreaming of smoky gray eyes, coveralls, long
legs, long fingers, and dark, dark unexplored places. I wake twice in the night, my heart
pounding. Oh, I’m going to look just great tomorrow with so little sleep, I scold myself. I
punch my pillow and try to settle.
The Heathman is nestled in the downtown heart of Portland. Its impressive brown stone
edifice was completed just in time for the crash of the late 1920s. José, Travis, and I are
traveling in my Beetle, and Kate is in her CLK, since we can’t all fit in my car. Travis is
José’s friend and gopher, here to help out with the lighting. Kate has managed to acquire
the use of a room at the Heathman free of charge for the morning in exchange for a credit
in the article. When she explains at reception that we’re here to photograph Christian Grey
CEO, we are instantly upgraded to a suite. Just a regular-sized suite, however, as apparent-
ly Mr. Grey is already occupying the largest one in the building. An over-keen marketing
executive shows us up to the suite – he’s terribly young and very nervous for some reason.
I suspect it’s Kate’s beauty and commanding manner that disarms him, because he’s putty
in her hands. The rooms are elegant, understated, and opulently furnished.
It’s nine. We have half an hour to set up. Kate is in full flow.
“José, I think we’ll shoot against that wall, do you agree?” She doesn’t wait for his
reply. “Travis, clear the chairs. Ana, could you ask housekeeping to bring up some refresh-
ments? And let Grey know where we are.”
Yes, Mistress. She is so domineering. I roll my eyes, but do as I’m told.
Half an hour later, Christian Grey walks into our suite.
Holy Crap! He’s wearing a white shirt, open at the collar, and grey flannel pants that
hang from his hips. His unruly hair is still damp from a shower. My mouth goes dry
looking at him... he’s so freaking hot. Grey is followed into the suite by a man in his
mid-thirties, all buzz-cut and stubble in a sharp dark suit and tie who stands silently in the
corner. His hazel eyes watch us impassively.
“Miss Steele, we meet again.” Grey extends his hand, and I shake it, blinking rapidly.
Oh my... he really is, quite... wow. As I touch his hand, I’m aware of that delicious cur-
rent running right through me, lighting me up, making me blush, and I’m sure my erratic
breathing must be audible.
“Mr. Grey, this is Katherine Kavanagh,” I mutter, waving a hand toward Kate who
comes forward, looking him squarely in the eye.
“The tenacious Miss Kavanagh. How do you do?” He gives her a small smile, look-
ing genuinely amused. “I trust you’re feeling better? Anastasia said you were unwell last
week.”
“I’m fine, thank you, Mr. Grey.” She shakes his hand firmly without batting an eyelid.
I remind myself that Kate has been to the best private schools in Washington. Her family
has money, and she’s grown up confident and sure of her place in the world. She doesn’t
take any crap. I am in awe of her.
“Thank you for taking the time to do this.” She gives him a polite, professional smile.
“It’s a pleasure,” he answers, turning his gray gaze on me, and I flush, again. Damn it.“This is José Rodriguez, our photographer,” I say, grinning at José who smiles with
affection back at me. His eyes cool when he looks from me to Grey.
“Mr. Grey,” he nods.
“Mr. Rodriguez,” Grey’s expression changes too as he appraises José.
“Where would you like me?” Grey asks him. His tone sounds vaguely threatening. But
Katherine is not about to let José run the show.
“Mr. Grey – if you could sit here, please? Be careful of the lighting cables. And then
we’ll do a few standing, too.” She directs him to a chair set up against the wall.
Travis switches on the lights, momentarily blinding Grey, and mutters an apology.
Then Travis and I stand back and watch as José proceeds to snap away. He takes several
photographs hand-held, asking Grey to turn this way, then that, to move his arm, then put
it down again. Moving to the tripod, José takes several more, while Grey sits and poses,
patiently and naturally, for about twenty minutes. My wish has come true: I can stand and
admire Grey from not-so-afar. Twice our eyes lock, and I have to tear myself away from
his cloudy gaze.
“Enough sitting.” Katherine wades in again. “Standing, Mr. Grey?” she asks.
He stands, and Travis scurries in to remove the chair. The shutter on José’s Nikon
starts clicking again.
“I think we have enough,” José announces five minutes later.
“Great,” says Kate. “Thank you again, Mr. Grey.” She shakes his hand, as does José.
“I look forward to reading the article, Miss Kavanagh,” murmurs Grey, and turns to
me, standing by the door. “Will you walk with me, Miss Steele?” he asks.
“Sure,” I say, completely thrown. I glance anxiously at Kate, who shrugs at me. I
notice José scowling behind her.
“Good day to you all,” says Grey as he opens the door, standing aside to allow me out
first.
Holy hell... what’s this about? What does he want? I pause in the hotel corridor, fidg-
eting nervously as Grey emerges from the room followed by Mr. Buzz-Cut in his sharp suit.
“I’ll call you, Taylor,” he murmurs to Buzz-Cut. Taylor wanders back down the cor-
ridor, and Grey turns his burning gray gaze to me. Crap... have I done something wrong?
“I wondered if you would join me for coffee this morning.”
My heart slams into my mouth. A date? Christian Grey is asking me on a date. He’s
asking if you want a coffee. Maybe he thinks you haven’t woken up yet, my subconscious
whines at me in a sneering mood again. I clear my throat trying to control my nerves.
“I have to drive everyone home,” I murmur apologetically, twisting my hands and
fingers in front of me.
“TAYLOR,” he calls, making me jump. Taylor, who had been retreating down the cor-
ridor, turns and heads back toward us.
“Are they based at the university?” Grey asks, his voice soft and inquiring. I nod, too
stunned to speak.
“Taylor can take them. He’s my driver. We have a large 4x4 here, so he’ll be able to
take the equipment too.”
“Mr. Grey?” Taylor asks when he reaches us, giving nothing away.
“Please, can you drive the photographer, his assistant, and Miss Kavanagh back home?”“Certainly, sir,” Taylor replies.
“There. Now can you join me for coffee?” Grey smiles as if it’s a done deal.
I frown at him.
“Um – Mr. Grey, err – this really... look, Taylor doesn’t have to drive them home.” I
flash a brief look at Taylor, who remains stoically impassive. “I’ll swap vehicles with Kate,
if you give me a moment.”
Grey smiles a dazzling, unguarded, natural, all-teeth-showing, glorious smile. Oh
my... and he opens the door of the suite so I can re-enter. I scoot around him to enter the
room, finding Katherine in deep discussion with José.
“Ana, I think he definitely likes you,” she says with no preamble whatsoever. José
glares at me with disapproval. “But I don’t trust him,” she adds. I raise my hand up in the
hope that she’ll stop talking. By some miracle, she does.
“Kate, if you take the Beetle, can I take your car?”
“Why?”
“Christian Grey has asked me to go for coffee with him.”
Her mouth pops open. Speechless Kate! I savor the moment. She grabs me by my arm
and drags me into the bedroom that’s off the living area of the suite.
“Ana, there’s something about him.” Her tone is full of warning. “He’s gorgeous, I
agree, but I think he’s dangerous. Especially to someone like you.”
“What do you mean, someone like me?” I demand, affronted.
“An innocent like you, Ana. You know what I mean,” she says a little irritated. I flush.
“Kate, it’s just coffee. I’m starting my exams this week, and I need to study, so I won’t
be long.”
She purses her lips as if considering my request. Finally, she fishes her car keys out of
her pocket and hands them to me. I hand her mine.
“I’ll see you later. Don’t be long, or I’ll send out search and rescue.”
“Thanks.” I hug her.
I emerge from the suite to find Christian Grey waiting, leaning up against the wall,
looking like a male model in a pose for some glossy high-end magazine.
“Okay, let’s do coffee,” I murmur, flushing a beet red.
He grins.
“After you, Miss Steele.” He stands up straight, holding his hand out for me to go first.
I make my way down the corridor, my knees shaky, my stomach full of butterflies, and
my heart in my mouth thumping a dramatic uneven beat. I am going to have coffee with
Christian Grey... and I hate coffee.
We walk together down the wide hotel corridor to the elevators. What should I say to
him? My mind is suddenly paralyzed with apprehension. What are we going to talk about?
What on Earth do I have in common with him? His soft, warm voice startles me from my
reverie.
“How long have you known Katherine Kavanagh?”
Oh, an easy questions for starters.
“Since our freshman year. She’s a good friend.”
“Hmm,” he replies, non-committal. What is he thinking?At the elevators, he presses the call button, and the bell rings almost immediately. The
doors slide open revealing a young couple in a passionate clinch inside. Surprised and
embarrassed, they jump apart, staring guiltily in every direction but ours. Grey and I step
into the elevator.
I am struggling to maintain a straight face, so I gaze down at the floor, feeling my
cheeks turning pink. When I peek up at Grey through my lashes, he has a hint of a smile
on his lips, but it’s very hard to tell. The young couple says nothing, and we travel down to
the first floor in embarrassed silence. We don’t even have trashy piped music to distract us.
The doors open and, much to my surprise, Grey takes my hand, clasping it with his
long cool fingers. I feel the current run through me, and my already rapid heartbeat accel-
erates. As he leads me out of the elevator, we can hear the suppressed giggles of the couple
erupting behind us. Grey grins.
“What is it about elevators?” he mutters.
We cross the expansive, bustling lobby of the hotel toward the entrance but Grey avoids
the revolving door, and I wonder if that’s because he’d have to let go of my hand.
Outside, it’s a mild May Sunday. The sun is shining and the traffic is light. Grey turns
left and strolls to the corner, where we stop waiting for the lights of the pedestrian crossing
to change. He’s still holding my hand. I’m in the street, and Christian Grey is holding
my hand. No one has ever held my hand. I feel giddy, and I tingle all over. I attempt to
smother the ridiculous grin that threatens to split my face in two. Try to be cool, Ana, my
subconscious implores me. The green man appears, and we’re off again.
We walk four blocks before we reach the Portland Coffee House, where Grey releases
me to hold the door open so I can step inside.
“Why don’t you choose a table, while I get the drinks. What would you like?” he asks,
polite as ever.
“I’ll have... um – English Breakfast tea, bag out.”
He raises his eyebrows.
“No coffee?”
“I’m not keen on coffee.”
He smiles.
“Okay, bag out tea. Sugar?”
For a moment, I’m stunned, thinking it’s an endearment, but fortunately my subcon-
scious kicks in with pursed lips. No, stupid – do you take sugar?
“No thanks.” I stare down at my knotted fingers.
“Anything to eat?”
“No thank you.” I shake my head, and he heads to the counter.
I surreptitiously gaze at him from beneath my lashes as he stands in line waiting to
be served. I could watch him all day... he’s tall, broad-shouldered, and slim, and the way
those pants hang from his hips... Oh my. Once or twice he runs his long, graceful fingers
through his now dry but still disorderly hair. Hmm... I’d like to do that. The thought comes
unbidden into my mind, and my face flames. I bite my lip and stare down at my hands
again not liking where my wayward thoughts are headed.
“Penny for your thoughts?” Grey is back, startling me.I go crimson. I was just thinking about running my fingers through your hair and
wondering if it would feel soft to touch. I shake my head. He’s carrying a tray, which he
sets down on the small, round, birch-veneer table. He hands me a cup and saucer, a small
teapot, and a side plate bearing a lone teabag labeled ‘Twinings English Breakfast’ – my
favorite. He has a coffee which bears a wonderful leaf-pattern imprinted in the milk. How
do they do that? I wonder idly. He’s also bought himself a blueberry muffin. Putting the
tray aside, he sits opposite me and crosses his long legs. He looks so comfortable, so at
ease with his body, I envy him. Here’s me, all gawky and uncoordinated, barely able to get
from A to B without falling flat on my face.
“Your thoughts?” he prompts me.
“This is my favorite tea.” My voice is quiet, breathy. I simply can’t believe I’m sitting
opposite Christian Grey in a coffee shop in Portland. He frowns. He knows I’m hiding
something. I pop the teabag into the teapot and almost immediately fish it out again with
my teaspoon. As I place the used teabag back on the side plate, he cocks his head gazing
quizzically at me.
“I like my tea black and weak,” I mutter as an explanation.
“I see. Is he your boyfriend?”
Whoa... What?
“Who?”
“The photographer. José Rodriguez.”
I laugh, nervous but curious. What gave him that impression?
“No. José’s a good friend of mine, that’s all. Why did you think he was my boyfriend?”
“The way you smiled at him, and he at you.” His gray gaze holds mine. He’s so un-
nerving. I want to look away but I’m caught – spellbound.
“He’s more like family,” I whisper.
Grey nods slightly, seemingly satisfied with my response, and glances down at his
blueberry muffin. His long fingers deftly peel back the paper, and I watch, fascinated.
“Do you want some?” he asks, and that amused, secret smile is back.
“No thanks.” I frown and stare down at my hands again.
“And the boy I met yesterday, at the store. He’s not your boyfriend?”
“No. Paul’s just a friend. I told you yesterday.” Oh, this is getting silly. “Why do you
ask?”
“You seem nervous around men.”
Holy crap, that’s personal. I’m just nervous around you, Grey.
“I find you intimidating.” I flush scarlet, but mentally pat myself on the back for my
candor, and gaze at my hands again. I hear his sharp intake of breath.
“You should find me intimidating,” he nods. “You’re very honest. Please don’t look
down. I like to see your face.”
Oh. I glance at him, and he gives me an encouraging but wry smile.
“It gives me some sort of clue what you might be thinking,” he breathes. “You’re a
mystery, Miss Steele.
Mysterious? Me?
“There’s nothing mysterious about me.”
“I think you’re very self-contained,” he murmurs.Am I? Wow... how am I managing that? This is bewildering. Me, self-contained?
No Way.
“Except when you blush, of course, which is often. I just wish I knew what you were
blushing about.” He pops a small piece of muffin into his mouth and starts to chew it
slowly, not taking his eyes off me. And as if on cue, I blush. Crap!
“Do you always make such personal observations?”
“I hadn’t realized I was. Have I offended you?” He sounds surprised.
“No,” I answer truthfully.
“Good.”
“But you’re very high-handed,” I retaliate quietly.
He raises his eyebrows and, if I’m not mistaken, he flushes slightly too.
“I’m used to getting my own way, Anastasia,” he murmurs. “In all things.”
“I don’t doubt it. Why haven’t you asked me to call you by your first name?” I’m sur-
prised by my audacity. Why has this conversation become so serious? This isn’t going the
way I thought it was going to go. I can’t believe I’m feeling so antagonistic towards him.
It’s like he’s trying to warn me off.
“The only people who use my given name are my family and a few close friends.
That’s the way I like it.”
Oh. He still hasn’t said, ‘Call me Christian.’ He is a control freak, there’s no other
explanation, and part of me is thinking maybe it would have been better if Kate had in-
terviewed him. Two control freaks together. Plus of course she’s almost blonde – well,
strawberry blonde – like all the women in his office. And she’s beautiful, my subconscious
reminds me. I don’t like the idea of Christian and Kate. I take a sip of my tea, and Grey
eats another small piece of his muffin.
“Are you an only child?” he asks.
Whoa... he keeps changing direction.
“Yes.”
“Tell me about your parents.”
Why does he want to know this? It’s so dull.
“My mom lives in Georgia with her new husband Bob. My stepdad lives in Monte-
sano.”
“Your father?”
“My father died when I was a baby.”
“I’m sorry,” he mutters and a fleeting troubled look crosses his face.
“I don’t remember him.”
“And your mother remarried?”
I snort.
“You could say that.”
He frowns at me.
“You’re not giving much away, are you?” he says dryly, rubbing his chin as if in deep
thought.
“Neither are you.”
“You’ve interviewed me once already, and I can recollect some quite probing questions
then.” He smirks at me.Holy shit. He’s remembering the ‘gay’ question. Once again, I’m mortified. In years
to come, I know, I’ll need intensive therapy to not feel this embarrassed every time I recall
the moment. I start babbling about my mother – anything to block that memory.
“My mom is wonderful. She’s an incurable romantic. She’s currently on her fourth
husband.”
Christian raises his eyebrows in surprise.
“I miss her,” I continue. “She has Bob now. I just hope he can keep an eye on her and
pick up the pieces when her harebrained schemes don’t go as planned.” I smile fondly. I
haven’t seen my mom for so long. Christian is watching me intently, taking occasional sips
of his coffee. I really shouldn’t look at his mouth. It’s unsettling. Those lips.
“Do you get along with your stepfather?”
“Of course. I grew up with him. He’s the only father I know.”
“And what’s he like?”
“Ray? He’s... taciturn.”
“That’s it?” Grey asks, surprised.
I shrug. What does this man expect? My life story?
“Taciturn like his stepdaughter,” Grey prompts.
I refrain from rolling my eyes at him.
“He likes soccer – European soccer especially – and bowling, and fly-fishing, and mak-
ing furniture. He’s a carpenter. Ex-army.” I sigh.
“You lived with him?”
“Yes. My mom met Husband Number Three when I was fifteen. I stayed with Ray.”
He frowns as if he doesn’t understand.
“You didn’t want to live with your mom?” he asks.
I blush. This really is none of his business.
“Husband Number Three lived in Texas. My home was in Montesano. And... you
know my mom was newly married.” I stop. My mom never talks about Husband Number
Three. Where is Grey going with this? This is none of his business. Two can play at this
game.
“Tell me about your parents,” I ask.
He shrugs.
“My dad’s a lawyer, my mom is a pediatrician. They live in Seattle.”
Oh... he’s had an affluent upbringing. And I wonder about a successful couple who
adopt three kids, and one of them turns into a beautiful man who takes on the business
world and conquers it single-handed. What drove him to be that way? His folks must be
proud.
“What do your siblings do?”
“Elliot’s in construction, and my little sister is in Paris, studying cookery under some
renowned French chef.” His eyes cloud with irritation. He doesn’t want to talk about his
family or himself.
“I hear Paris is lovely,” I murmur. Why doesn’t he want to talk about his family? Is it
because he’s adopted?
“It’s beautiful. Have you been?” he asks, his irritation forgotten.
“I’ve never left mainland USA.” So now we’re back to banalities. What is he hiding?“Would you like to go?”
“To Paris?” I squeak. This has thrown me – who wouldn’t want to go to Paris? “Of
course,” I concede. “But it’s England that I’d really like to visit.”
He cocks his head to one side, running his index finger across his lower lip... oh my.
“Because?”
I blink rapidly. Concentrate, Steele.
“It’s the home of Shakespeare, Austen, the Brontë sisters, Thomas Hardy. I’d like to
see the places that inspired those people to write such wonderful books.”
All this talk of literary greats reminds me that I should be studying. I glance at my
watch.
“I’d better go. I have to study.”
“For your exams?”
“Yes. They start Tuesday.”
“Where’s Miss Kavanagh’s car?”
“In the hotel parking lot.”
“I’ll walk you back.”
“Thank you for the tea, Mr. Grey.”
He smiles his odd I’ve got a whopping big secret smile.
“You’re welcome, Anastasia. It’s my pleasure. Come,” he commands, and holds his
hand out to me. I take it, bemused, and follow him out of the coffee shop.
We stroll back to the hotel, and I’d like to say it’s in companionable silence. He at
least looks his usual calm, collected self. As for me, I’m desperately trying to gauge how
our little coffee morning has gone. I feel like I’ve been interviewed for a position, but I’m
not sure what it is.
“Do you always wear jeans?” he asks out of the blue.
“Mostly.”
He nods. We’re back at the intersection, across the road from the hotel. My mind is
reeling. What an odd question... And I’m aware that our time together is limited. This is
it. This was it, and I’ve completely blown it, I know. Perhaps he has someone.
“Do you have a girlfriend?” I blurt out. Holy crap - I just said that out loud?
His lips quirk up in a half-smile, and he looks down at me.
“No, Anastasia. I don’t do the girlfriend thing,” he says softly.
Oh... what does that mean? He’s not gay? Oh, maybe he is - crap! He must have
lied to me in his interview. And for a moment, I think he’s going to follow on with some
explanation, some clue to this cryptic statement – but he doesn’t. I have to go. I have to
try to reassemble my thoughts. I have to get away from him. I walk forward, and I trip,
stumbling headlong onto the road.
“Shit, Ana!” Grey cries. He tugs the hand that he’s holding so hard that I fall back
against him just as a cyclist whips past, narrowly missing me, heading the wrong way up
this one-way street.
It all happens so fast – one minute I’m falling, the next I’m in his arms, and he’s hold-
ing me tightly against his chest. .I inhale his clean, vital scent. He smells of fresh laundered
linen and some expensive body-wash. Oh my, it’s intoxicating. I inhale deeply.“Are you okay?” he whispers. He has one arm around me, clasping me to him, while
the fingers of his other hand softly trace my face, gently probing, examining me. His
thumb brushes my lower lip, and I hear his breath hitch. He’s staring into my eyes, and I
hold his anxious, burning gaze for a moment or maybe it’s forever... but eventually, my at-
tention is drawn to his beautiful mouth. Oh my. And for the first time in twenty-one years,
I want to be kissed. I want to feel his mouth on me.Kiss me damn it! I implore him, but I can’t move. I’m paralyzed with a strange, unfamiliar
need, completely captivated by him. I’m staring at Christian Grey’s exquisitely sculptured
mouth, mesmerized, and he’s looking down at me, his gaze hooded, his eyes darkening.
He’s breathing harder than usual, and I’ve stopped breathing altogether. I’m in your arms.
Kiss me, please. He closes his eyes, takes a deep breath, and gives me a small shake of his
head as if in answer to my silent question. When he opens his eyes again, it’s with some
new purpose, a steely resolve.
“Anastasia, you should steer clear of me. I’m not the man for you,” he whispers.
What? Where is this coming from? Surely I should be the judge of that. I frown up at him,
and my head swims with rejection.
“Breathe, Anastasia, breathe. I’m going to stand you up and let you go,” he says qui-
etly, and he gently pushes me away.
Adrenaline has spiked through my body, from the near miss with the cyclist or the
heady proximity to Christian, leaving me wired and weak. NO! My psyche screams as
he pulls away, leaving me bereft. He has his hands on my shoulders, holding me at arm’s
length, watching my reactions carefully. And the only thing I can think is that I wanted
to be kissed, made it pretty damned obvious, and he didn’t do it. He doesn’t want me. He
really doesn’t want me. I have royally screwed up the coffee morning.“I’ve got this,” I breathe, finding my voice. “Thank you,” I mutter awash with humili-
ation. How could I have misread the situation between us so utterly? I need to get away
from him.
“For what?” he frowns. He hasn’t taken his hands off me.
“For saving me,” I whisper.
“That idiot was riding the wrong way. I’m glad I was here. I shudder to think what
could have happened to you. Do you want to come and sit down in the hotel for a mo-
ment?” He releases me, his hands by his sides, and I’m standing in front of him feeling
like a fool.
With a shake, I clear my head. I just want to go. All my vague, unarticulated hopes
have been dashed. He doesn’t want me. What was I thinking? I scold myself. What would
Christian Grey want with you? My subconscious mocks me. I wrap my arms around my-
self and turn to face the road and note with relief that the green man has appeared. I quickly
make my way across, conscious that Grey is behind me. Outside the hotel, I turn briefly to
face him but cannot look him in the eye.
“Thanks for the tea and doing the photo shoot,” I murmur.
“Anastasia... I... ” He stops, and the anguish in his voice demands my attention, so I
peer unwillingly up at him. His gray eyes are bleak as he runs his hand through his hair.
He looks torn, frustrated, his expression stark, all his careful control has evaporated.
“What, Christian?” I snap irritably after he says – nothing. I just want to go. I need to
take my fragile, wounded pride away and somehow nurse it back to health.
“Good luck with your exams,” he murmurs.
Huh? This is why he looks so desolate? This is the big send off? Just to wish me luck
in my exams?
“Thanks.” I can’t disguise the sarcasm in my voice. “Goodbye, Mr. Grey.” I turn on
my heel, vaguely amazed that I don’t trip, and without giving him a second glance, I disap-
pear down the sidewalk toward the underground garage.
Once underneath the dark, cold concrete of the garage with its bleak fluorescent light,
I lean against the wall and put my head in my hands. What was I thinking? Unbidden and
unwelcome tears pool in my eyes. Why am I crying? I sink to the ground, angry at myself
for this senseless reaction. Drawing up my knees, I fold in on myself. I want to make
myself as small as possible. Perhaps this nonsensical pain will be smaller the smaller I am.
Placing my head on my knees, I let the irrational tears fall unrestrained. I am crying over
the loss of something I never had. How ridiculous. Mourning something that never was –
my dashed hopes, dashed dreams, and my soured expectations.
I have never been on the receiving end of rejection. Okay... so I was always one of the
last to be picked for basketball or volleyball – but I understood that – running and doing
something else at the same time like bouncing or throwing a ball is not my thing. I am a
serious liability in any sporting field.
Romantically, though, I’ve never put myself out there, ever. A lifetime of insecurity
– I’m too pale, too skinny, too scruffy, uncoordinated, my long list of faults goes on. So
I have always been the one to rebuff any would be admirers. There was that guy in my
chemistry class who liked me, but no one has ever sparked my interest – no one except
Christian damn Grey. Maybe I should be kinder to the likes of Paul Clayton and José Ro-driguez, though I’m sure neither of them have been found sobbing alone in dark places.
Perhaps I just need a good cry.
Stop! Stop Now! - My subconscious is metaphorically screaming at me, arms folded,
leaning on one leg and tapping her foot in frustration. Get in the car, go home, do your
studying. Forget about him... Now! And stop all this self-pitying, wallowing crap.
I take a deep, steadying breath and stand up. Get it together Steele. I head for Kate’s
car, wiping the tears off my face as I do. I will not think of him again. I can just chalk this
incident up to experience and concentrate on my exams.
Kate is sitting at the dining table at her laptop when I arrive. Her welcoming smile fades
when she sees me.
“Ana what’s wrong?”
Oh no... not the Katherine Kavanagh Inquisition. I shake my head at her in a back-off
now Kavanagh way – but I might as well be dealing with a blind, deaf mute.
“You’ve been crying,” she has an exceptional gift for stating the damned obvious
sometimes. “What did that bastard do to you?” she growls, and her face – jeez, she’s scary.
“Nothing Kate.” That’s actually the problem. The thought brings a wry smile to my
face.
“Then why have you been crying? You never cry,” she says, her voice softening. She
stands, her green eyes brimming with concern. She puts her arms around me and hugs me.
I need to say something just to get her to back off.
“I was nearly knocked over by a cyclist.” It’s the best that I can do, but it distracts her
momentarily from... him.
“Jeez Ana – are you okay? Were you hurt?” She holds me at arm’s length and does a
quick visual check-up on me.
“No. Christian saved me,” I whisper. “But I was quite shaken.”
“I’m not surprised. How was coffee? I know you hate coffee.”
“I had tea. It was fine, nothing to report really. I don’t know why he asked me.”
“He likes you Ana.” She drops her arms.
“Not anymore. I won’t be seeing him again.” Yes, I manage to sound matter of fact.
“Oh?”
Crap. She’s intrigued. I head into the kitchen so that she can’t see my face.
“Yeah... he’s a little out of my league Kate,” I say as dryly as I can manage.
“What do you mean?”
“Oh Kate, it’s obvious.” I whirl round and face her as she stands in the kitchen door-
way.
“Not to me,” she says. “Okay, he’s got more money than you, but then he has more
money than most people in America!”
“Kate he’s– ” I shrug.
“Ana! For heaven’s sake – how many times must I tell you? You’re a total babe,” she
interrupts me. Oh no. She’s off on this tirade again.
“Kate, please. I need to study.” I cut her short. She frowns.
“Do you want to see the article? It’s finished. José took some great pictures.”Do I need a visual reminder of the beautiful Christian I-don’t-want-you Grey?
“Sure,” I magic a smile on to my face and stroll over to the laptop. And there he is,
staring at me in black and white, staring at me and finding me lacking.
I pretend to read the article, all the time meeting his steady gray gaze, searching the
photo for some clue as to why he’s not the man for me – his own words to me. And it’s
suddenly, blindingly obvious. He’s too gloriously good-looking. We are poles apart and
from two very different worlds. I have a vision of myself as Icarus flying too close to the
sun and crashing and burning as a result. His words make sense. He’s not the man for me.
This is what he meant, and it makes his rejection easier to accept... almost. I can live with
this. I understand.
“Very good Kate,” I manage. “I’m going to study.” I am not going to think about him
again for now, I vow to myself, and opening my revision notes, I start to read.
It’s only when I’m in bed, trying to sleep, that I allow my thoughts to drift through my
strange morning. I keep coming back to the ‘I don’t do the girlfriend thing’ quote, and I’m
angry that I didn’t pounce on this information sooner, when I was in his arms mentally beg-
ging him with every fiber of my being to kiss me. He’d said it there and then. He didn’t
want me as a girlfriend. I turn on to my side. Idly, I wonder if perhaps he’s celibate? I
close my eyes and begin to drift. Maybe he’s saving himself. Well not for you, my sleepy
subconscious has a final swipe at me before unleashing itself on my dreams.
And that night, I dream of gray eyes, leafy patterns in milk, and I’m running through
dark places with eerie strip lighting, and I don’t know if I’m running toward something or
away from it... it’s just not clear.
I put my pen down. Finished. My final exam is over. I feel the Cheshire cat grin
spread over my face. It’s probably the first time all week that I’ve smiled. It’s Friday, and
we shall be celebrating tonight, really celebrating. I might even get drunk! I’ve never been
drunk before. I glance across the sports hall at Kate, and she’s still scribbling furiously,
five minutes to the end. This is it, the end of my academic career. I shall never have to sit
in rows of anxious, isolated students again. Inside I’m doing graceful cartwheels around
my head, knowing full well that’s the only place I can do graceful cartwheels. Kate stops
writing and puts her pen down. She glances across at me, and I catch her Cheshire cat
smile too.
We head back to our apartment together in her Mercedes, refusing to discuss our final
paper. Kate is more concerned about what she’s going to wear to the bar this evening. I
am busily fishing around in my purse for my keys.“Ana, there’s a package for you.” Kate is standing on the steps up to the front door
holding a brown paper parcel. Odd. I haven’t ordered anything from Amazon recently.
Kate gives me the parcel and takes my keys to open the front door. It’s addressed to Miss
Anastasia Steele. There’s no sender’s address or name. Perhaps it’s from my mom or Ray.
“It’s probably from my folks.”
“Open it!” Kate is excited as she heads into the kitchen for our ‘Exams are finished
hurrah Champagne’.
I open the parcel, and inside I find a half leather box containing three seemingly identi-
cal old cloth-covered books in mint condition and a plain white card. Written on one side,
in black ink in neat cursive handwriting, is:
I recognize the quote from Tess. I am stunned by the irony as I’ve just spent three
hours writing about the novels of Thomas Hardy in my final examination. Perhaps there
is no irony... perhaps it’s deliberate. I inspect the books closely, three volumes of Tess of
the D’Urbervilles. I open the front cover. Written in an old typeface on the front plate is:
‘London: Jack R. Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., 1891.’
Holy shit - they are first editions. They must be worth a fortune, and I know immedi-
ately who’s sent them. Kate is at my shoulder gazing at the books. She picks up the card.
“First Editions,” I whisper.
“No.” Kate’s eyes are wide with disbelief. “Grey?”
I nod.
“Can’t think of anyone else.”
“What does this card mean?”
“I have no idea. I think it’s a warning – honestly he keeps warning me off. I have no
idea why. It’s not like I’m beating his door down.” I frown.
“I know you don’t want to talk about him, Ana, but he’s seriously into you. Warnings
or no.”
I have not let myself dwell on Christian Grey for the past week. Okay... so his gray
eyes are still haunting my dreams, and I know it will take an eternity to expunge the feel of
his arms around me and his wonderful fragrance from my brain. Why has he sent me this?
He told me that I wasn’t for him.“I’ve found one Tess first edition for sale in New York at $14,000. But yours looks
in much better condition. They must have cost more.” Kate is consulting her good friend
Google.
“This quote – Tess says it to her mother after Alec D’Urberville has had his wicked
way with her.”
“I know,” muses Kate. “What is he trying to say?”
“I don’t know, and I don’t care. I can’t accept these from him. I’ll send them back with
an equally baffling quote from some obscure part of the book.”
“The bit where Angel Clare says fuck off?” Kate asks with a completely straight face.
“Yes, that bit.” I giggle. I love Kate, she’s so loyal and supportive. I repack the books
and leave them on the dining table. Kate hands me a glass of champagne.
“To the end of exams and our new life in Seattle,” she grins.
“To the end of exams, our new life in Seattle, and excellent results.” We clink glasses
and drink.
The bar is loud and hectic, full of soon to be graduates out to get trashed. José joins us. He
won’t graduate for another year, but he’s in the mood to party and gets us into the spirit of
our newfound freedom by buying a pitcher of margaritas for us all. As I down my fifth, I
know this is not a good idea on top of the champagne.
“So what now Ana?” José shouts at me over the noise.
“Kate and I are moving to Seattle. Kate’s parents have bought a condo there for her.”
“Dios mio, how the other half live. But you’ll be back for my show.”
“Of course, José, I wouldn’t miss it for the world.” I smile, and he puts his arm around
my waist and pulls me close.
“It means a lot to me that you’ll be there Ana,” he whispers in my ear. “Another mar-
garita?”
“José Luis Rodriguez – are you trying to get me drunk? Because I think it’s working.”
I giggle. “I think I’d better have a beer. I’ll go get us a pitcher.”
“More drink, Ana!” Kate bellows.
Kate has the constitution of an ox. She’s got her arm draped over Levi, one of our fel-
low English students and her usual photographer on her student newspaper. He’s given up
taking photos of the drunkenness that surrounds him. He only has eyes for Kate. She’s all
tiny camisole, tight jeans, and high heels, hair piled high with tendrils hanging down softly
around her face, her usual stunning self. Me, I’m more of a Converse and t-shirt kind of
girl, but I’m wearing my most flattering jeans. I move out of José’s hold and get up from
our table. Whoa. Head spin. I have to grab the back of the chair. Tequila based cocktails
are not a good idea.
I make my way to the bar and decide that I should visit the powder room while I am on
my feet. Good thinking, Ana. I stagger off through the crowd. Of course, there’s a line, but
at least it’s quiet and cool in the corridor. I reach for my cell phone to relieve the boredom
of waiting in line. Hmm... Who did I last call? Was it José? Before that a number I don’t
recognize. Oh yes. Grey, I think this is his number. I giggle. I have no idea what the time
is, maybe I’ll wake him. Perhaps he can tell me why he sent me those books and the crypticmessage. If he wants me to stay away, he should leave me alone. I suppress a drunken grin
and hit the automatic re-dial. He answers on the second ring.
“Anastasia?” He’s surprised to hear from me. Well, frankly, I’m surprised to ring him.
Then my befuddled brain registers... how does he know it’s me?
“Why did you send me the books?” I slur at him.
“Anastasia, are you okay? You sound strange.” His voice is filled with concern.
“I’m not the strange one, you are,” I accuse. There - that told him, my courage fuelled
by alcohol.
“Anastasia, have you been drinking?”
“What’s it to you?”
“I’m – curious. Where are you?”
“In a bar.”
“Which bar?” He sounds exasperated.
“A bar in Portland.”
“How are you getting home?”
“I’ll find a way.” This conversation is not going how I expected.
“Which bar are you in?”
“Why did you send me the books, Christian?”
“Anastasia, where are you, tell me now.” His tone is so, so dictatorial, his usual control
freak. I imagine him as an old time movie director wearing jodhpurs, holding an old fash-
ioned megaphone and a riding crop. The image makes me laugh out loud.
“You’re so... domineering,” I giggle.
“Ana, so help me, where the fuck are you?”
Christian Grey is swearing at me. I giggle again. “I’m in Portland... s’a long way
from Seattle.”
“Where in Portland?”
“Goodnight, Christian.”
“Ana!”
I hang up. Ha! Though he didn’t tell me about the books. I frown. Mission not ac-
complished. I am really quite drunk - my head swims uncomfortably as I shuffle with the
line. Well, the object of the exercise was to get drunk. I have succeeded. This is what it’s
like – probably not an experience to be repeated. The line has moved, and it’s now my
turn. I stare blankly at the poster on the back of the toilet door that extols the virtues of
safe sex. Holy crap, did I just call Christian Grey? Shit. My phone rings and it makes me
jump. I yelp in surprise.
“Hi,” I bleat timidly in to the phone. I hadn’t reckoned on this.
“I’m coming to get you,” he says and hangs up. Only Christian Grey could sound so
calm and so threatening at the same time.
Holy crap. I pull my jeans up. My heart is thumping. Coming to get me? Oh no. I’m
going to be sick... no... I’m fine. Hang on. He’s just messing with my head. I didn’t tell
him where I was. He can’t find me here. Besides, it will take him hours to get here from
Seattle, and we’ll be long gone by then. I wash my hands and check my face in the mirror.
I look flushed and slightly unfocused. Hmm... tequila.I wait at the bar for what feels like an eternity for the pitcher of beer and eventually
return to the table.
“You’ve been gone so long.” Kate scolds me. “Where were you?”
“I was in line for the restroom.”
José and Levi are having some heated debate about our local baseball team. José
pauses in his tirade to pour us all beers, and I take a long sip.
“Kate, I think I’d better step outside and get some fresh air.”
“Ana, you are such a lightweight.”
“I’ll be five minutes.”
I make my way through the crowd again. I am beginning to feel nauseous, my head is
spinning uncomfortably, and I’m a little unsteady on my feet. More unsteady than usual.
Drinking in the cool evening air in the parking lot makes me realize how drunk I am.
My vision has been affected, and I’m really seeing double of everything like in old re-runs
of Tom and Jerry Cartoons. I think I’m going to be sick. Why did I let myself get this
messed up?
“Ana,” José has joined me. “You okay?”
“I think I’ve just had a bit too much to drink.” I smile weakly at him.
“Me too,” he murmurs, and his dark eyes are watching me intently. “Do you need a
hand?” he asks and steps closer, putting his arm around me.
“José I’m okay. I’ve got this.” I try and push him away rather feebly.
“Ana, please,” he whispers, and now he’s holding me in his arms, pulling me close.
“José, what you doing?”
“You know I like you Ana, please.” He has one hand at the small of my back holding
me against him, the other at my chin tipping back my head. Holy fuck... he’s going to kiss
me.
“No José, stop – no.” I push him, but he’s a wall of hard muscle, and I cannot shift him.
His hand has slipped into my hair, and he’s holding my head in place.
“Please, Ana, cariña,” he whispers against my lips. His breath is soft and smells too
sweet – of margarita and beer. He gently trails kisses along my jaw up to the side of my
mouth. I feel panicky, drunk, and out of control. The feeling is suffocating.
“José, no,” I plead. I don’t want this. You are my friend, and I think I’m going to throw
up.
“I think the lady said no.” A voice in the dark says quietly. Holy shit! Christian Grey,
he’s here. How? José releases me.
“Grey,” he says tersely. I glance anxiously up at Christian. He’s glowering at José,
and he’s furious. Crap. My stomach heaves, and I double over, my body no longer able to
tolerate the alcohol, and I vomit spectacularly on to the ground.
“Ugh – Dios mio, Ana!” José jumps back in disgust. Grey grabs my hair and pulls it
out of the firing line and gently leads me over to a raised flowerbed on the edge of the park-
ing lot. I note, with deep gratitude, that it’s in relative darkness.
“If you’re going to throw up again, do it here. I’ll hold you.” He has one arm around
my shoulders – the other is holding my hair in a makeshift ponytail down my back so it’s
off my face. I try awkwardly to push him away, but I vomit again... and again. Oh shit...
how long is this going to last? Even when my stomach’s empty and nothing is coming up,horrible dry heaves wrack my body. I vow silently that I’ll never ever drink again. This is
just too appalling for words. Finally, it stops.
My hands are resting on the brick wall of the flowerbed, barely holding me up - vomit-
ing profusely is exhausting. Grey takes his hands off me and passes me a handkerchief.
Only he would have a monogrammed, freshly laundered, linen handkerchief. CTG. I
didn’t know you could still buy these. Vaguely I wonder what the T stands for as I wipe
my mouth. I cannot bring myself to look at him. I’m swamped with shame, disgusted with
myself. I want to be swallowed up by the azaleas in the flowerbed and be anywhere but
here.
José is still hovering by the entrance to the bar, watching us. I groan and put my head
in my hands. This has to be the single worst moment of my life. My head is still swimming
as I try to remember a worse one – and I can only come up with Christian’s rejection – and
this is so, so many shades darker in terms of humiliation. I risk a peek at him. He’s staring
down at me, his face composed, giving nothing away. Turning, I glance at José who looks
pretty shamefaced himself and, like me, intimidated by Grey. I glare at him. I have a few
choice words for my so-called friend, none of which I can repeat in front of Christian Grey
CEO. Ana who are you kidding, he’s just seen you hurl all over the ground and into the
local flora. There’s no disguising your lack of ladylike behavior.
“I’ll err... see you inside,” José mutters, but we both ignore him, and he slinks off back
into the building. I’m on my own with Grey. Double crap. What should I say to him?
Apologize for the phone call.
“I’m sorry,” I mutter, staring at the handkerchief which I am furiously worrying with
my fingers. It’s so soft.
“What are you sorry for Anastasia?”
Oh crap, he wants his damned pound of flesh.
“The phone call mainly, being sick. Oh, the list is endless,” I murmur, feeling my skin
coloring up. Please, please can I die now?
“We’ve all been here, perhaps not quite as dramatically as you,” he says dryly. “It’s
about knowing your limits, Anastasia. I mean, I’m all for pushing limits, but really this is
beyond the pale. Do you make a habit of this kind of behavior?”
My head buzzes with excess alcohol and irritation. What the hell has it got to do with
him? I didn’t invite him here. He sounds like a middle-aged man scolding me like an er-
rant child. Part of me wants to say, if I want to get drunk every night like this, then it’s my
decision and nothing to do with him – but I’m not brave enough. Not now that I’ve thrown
up in front of him. Why is he still standing there?
“No,” I say contritely. “I’ve never been drunk before and right now I have no desire
to ever be again.”
I just don’t understand why he’s here. I begin to feel faint. He notices my dizziness and
grabs me before I fall and hoists me into his arms, holding me close to his chest like a child.
“Come on, I’ll take you home,” he murmurs.
“I need to tell Kate.” Holy Moses, I’m in his arms again.
“My brother can tell her.”
“What?”
“My brother Elliot is talking to Miss Kavanagh.”“Oh?” I don’t understand.
“He was with me when you phoned.”
“In Seattle?” I’m confused.
“No, I’m staying at the Heathman.”
Still? Why?
“How did you find me?”
“I tracked your cell phone Anastasia.”
Oh, of course he did. How is that possible? Is it legal? Stalker, my subconscious
whispers at me through the cloud of tequila that’s still floating in my brain, but somehow,
because it’s him, I don’t mind.
“Do you have a jacket or a purse?”
“Err... yes, I came with both. Christian, please, I need to tell Kate. She’ll worry.” His
mouth presses into a hard line, and he sighs heavily.
“If you must.”
He sets me down, and, taking my hand, leads me back into the bar. I feel weak, still
drunk, embarrassed, exhausted, mortified, and on some strange level absolutely off the
scale thrilled. He’s clutching my hand – such a confusing array of emotions. I’ll need at
least a week to process them all.
It’s noisy, crowded, and the music has started so there is a large crowd on the dance
floor. Kate is not at our table, and José has disappeared. Levi looks lost and forlorn on his
own.
“Where’s Kate?” I shout at Levi above the noise. My head is beginning to pound in
time to the thumping bass line of the music.
“Dancing,” Levi shouts, and I can tell he’s mad. He’s eyeing Christian suspiciously.
I struggle into my black jacket and place my small shoulder bag over my head so it sits at
my hip. I’m ready to go, once I’ve seen Kate.
“She’s on the dance floor,” I touch Christian’s arm and lean up and shout in his ear,
brushing his hair with my nose, smelling his clean, fresh smell. Oh my. All those forbid-
den, unfamiliar feelings that I have tried to deny surface and run amok through my drained
body. I flush, and somewhere deep, deep down my muscles clench deliciously.
He rolls his eyes at me and takes my hand again and leads me to the bar. He’s served
immediately, no waiting for Mr. Control-Freak Grey. Does everything come so easily to
him? I can’t hear what he orders. He hands me a very large glass of iced water.
“Drink,” he shouts his order at me.
The moving lights are twisting and turning in time to the music casting strange colored
light and shadows all over the bar and the clientele. He’s alternately green, blue, white, and
a demonic red. He’s watching me intently. I take a tentative sip.
“All of it,” he shouts.
He’s so overbearing. He runs his hand through his unruly hair. He looks frustrated,
angry. What is his problem? Apart from a silly drunk girl ringing him in the middle of the
night so he thinks she needs rescuing. And it turns out she does from her over amorous
friend. Then seeing her being violently ill at his feet. Oh Ana... are you ever going to live
this down? My subconscious is figuratively tutting and glaring at me over her half moon
specs. I sway slightly, and he puts his hand on my shoulder to steady me. I do as I’m toldand drink the entire glass. It makes me feel queasy. Taking the glass from me, he places it
on the bar. I notice through a blur what he’s wearing; a loose white linen shirt, snug jeans,
black Converse sneakers, and a dark pinstriped jacket. His shirt is unbuttoned at the top,
and I see a sprinkling of hair in the gap. In my groggy frame of mind, he looks yummy.
He takes my hand once more. Holy cow – he’s leading me onto the dance floor. Shit.
I do not dance. He can sense my reluctance, and under the colored lights, I can see his
amused, slightly sardonic smile. He gives my hand a sharp tug, and I’m in his arms again,
and he starts to move, taking me with him. Boy, he can dance, and I can’t believe that I’m
following him step for step. Maybe it’s because I’m drunk that I can keep up. He’s hold-
ing me tight against him, his body against mine... if he wasn’t clutching me so tightly, I’m
sure I would swoon at his feet. In the back of my mind, my mother’s often-recited warning
comes to me: Never trust a man who can dance.
He moves us through the crowded throng of dancers to the other side of the dance floor,
and we are beside Kate and Elliot, Christian’s brother. The music is pounding away, loud
and leery, outside and inside my head. I gasp. Kate is making her moves. She’s dancing
her ass off, and she only ever does that if she likes someone. Really likes someone. It
means there’ll be three of us for breakfast tomorrow morning. Kate!
Christian leans over and shouts in Elliot’s ear. I cannot hear what he says. Elliot is
tall with wide shoulders, curly blonde hair, and light, wickedly gleaming eyes. I can’t tell
the color under the pulsating heat of the flashing lights. Elliot grins, and pulls Kate into
his arms, where she is more than happy to be... Kate! Even in my inebriated state, I am
shocked. She’s only just met him. She nods at whatever Elliot says and grins at me and
waves. Christian propels us off the dance floor in double quick time.
But I never got to talk to her. Is she okay? I can see where things are heading for her
and him. I need to do the safe sex lecture. In the back of my mind, I hope she reads one of
the posters on the back of the toilet doors. My thoughts crash through my brain, fighting
the drunk, fuzzy feeling. It’s so warm in here, so loud, so colorful – too bright. My head
begins to swim, oh no... and I can feel the floor coming up to meet my face or so it feels.
The last thing I hear before I pass out in Christian Grey’s arms is his harsh epithet.
“Fuck!”It’s very quiet. The light is muted. I am comfortable and warm, in this bed. Hmm... I
open my eyes, and for a moment, I’m tranquil and serene, enjoying the strange unfamiliar
surroundings. I have no idea where I am. The headboard behind me is in the shape of
a massive sun. It’s oddly familiar. The room is large and airy and plushly furnished in
browns and golds and beige. I have seen it before. Where? My befuddled brain struggles
through its recent visual memories. Holy crap. I’m in the Heathman hotel... in a suite. I
have stood in a room similar to this with Kate. This looks bigger. Oh shit. I’m in Christian
Grey’s suite. How did I get here?
Fractured memories of the previous night come slowly back to haunt me. The drink-
ing, oh no the drinking, the phone call, oh no the phone call, the vomiting, oh no the vomit-
ing. José and then Christian. Oh no. I cringe inwardly. I don’t remember coming here.
I’m wearing my t-shirt, bra, and panties. No socks. No jeans. Holy shit.
I glance at the bedside table. On it is a glass of orange juice and two tablets. Advil.
Control freak that he is, he thinks of everything. I sit up and take the tablets. Actually, I
don’t feel that bad, probably much better than I deserve. The orange juice tastes divine.
It’s thirst quenching and refreshing. Nothing beats freshly squeezed orange juice for reviv-
ing an arid mouth.
There’s a knock on the door. My heart leaps into my mouth, and I can’t seem to find
my voice. He opens the door anyway and strolls in.Holy hell, he’s been working out. He’s in gray sweat pants that hang, in that way, off
his hips and a gray singlet, which is dark with sweat, like his hair. Christian Grey’s sweat,
the notion does odd things to me. I take a deep breath and close my eyes. I feel like a two-
year old, if I close my eyes then I’m not really here.
“Good morning Anastasia. How are you feeling?”
Oh no.
“Better than I deserve,” I mumble.
I peek up at him. He places a large shopping bag on a chair and grasps each end of the
towel that he has around his neck. He’s staring at me, gray eyes dark, and as usual, I have
no idea what he’s thinking. He hides his thoughts and feelings so well.
“How did I get here?” My voice is small, contrite.
He comes and sits down on the edge of the bed. He’s close enough for me to touch, for
me to smell. Oh my... sweat and body wash and Christian, it’s a heady cocktail - so much
better than a margarita, and now I can speak from experience.
“After you passed out, I didn’t want to risk the leather upholstery in my car taking you
all the way to your apartment. So I brought you here,” he says phlegmatically.
“Did you put me to bed?”
“Yes.” His face is impassive.
“Did I throw up again?” My voice is quieter.
“No.”
“Did you undress me?” I whisper.
“Yes.” He quirks an eyebrow at me as I blush furiously.
“We didn’t,” I whisper, my mouth drying in mortified horror as I can’t complete the
question. I stare at my hands.
“Anastasia, you were comatose. Necrophilia is not my thing. I like my women sen-
tient and receptive,” he says dryly.
“I’m so sorry.”
His mouth lifts slightly in a wry smile.
“It was a very diverting evening. Not one that I’ll forget in a while.”
Me neither – oh he’s laughing at me, the bastard. I didn’t ask him to come and get me.
Somehow I’ve been made to feel like the villain of the piece.
“You didn’t have to track me down with whatever James Bond stuff you’re developing
for the highest bidder,” I snap at him. He stares at me, surprised, and if I’m not mistaken,
a little wounded.
“Firstly, the technology to track cell phones is available over the Internet. Secondly,
my company does not invest or manufacture any kind of surveillance devices, and thirdly,
if I hadn’t come to get you, you’d probably be waking up in the photographer’s bed, and
from what I can remember, you weren’t overly enthused about him pressing his suit,” he
says acidly.
Pressing his suit! I glance up at Christian, he’s glaring at me, his gray eyes blazing,
aggrieved. I try to bite my lip, but I fail to repress my laughter.
“Which medieval chronicle did you escape from?” I giggle. “You sound like a courtly
knight.”His mood visibly shifts. His eyes soften and his expression warms, and I see a trace of
a smile on his beautifully chiseled lips.
“Anastasia, I don’t think so. Dark knight maybe.” His smile is sardonic, and he shakes
his head. “Did you eat last night?” His tone is accusatory. I shake my head. What major
transgression have I committed now? His jaw clenches, but his face remains impassive.
“You need to eat. That’s why you were so ill. Honestly Anastasia, it’s drinking rule
number one.” He runs this hand through his hair, and I know it’s because he’s exasperated.
“Are you going to continue to scold me?”
“Is that what I’m doing?”
“I think so.”
“You’re lucky I’m just scolding you.”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, if you were mine, you wouldn’t be able to sit down for a week after the stunt
you pulled yesterday. You didn’t eat, you got drunk, you put yourself at risk.” He closes his
eyes, dread etched on his lovely face, and he shudders slightly. When he opens his eyes,
he glares at me. “I hate to think what could have happened to you.”
I scowl back at him. What is his problem? What’s it to him? If I was his... well I’m
not. Though maybe, part of me would like to be. The thought pierces through the irritation
I feel at his high-handed words. I flush at the waywardness of my subconscious - she’s do-
ing her happy dance in a bright red hula skirt at the thought of being his.
“I would have been fine. I was with Kate.”
“And the photographer?” he snaps at me.
Hmm... young José. I’ll need to face him at some point.
“José just got out of line.” I shrug.
“Well the next time he gets out of line, maybe someone should teach him some man-
ners.”
“You are quite the disciplinarian,” I hiss at him.
“Oh, Anastasia, you have no idea.” His eyes narrow, and then he grins wickedly. It’s
disarming. One minute, I’m confused and angry, the next I’m gazing at his gorgeous smile.
Wow... I am entranced, and it’s because his smile is so rare. I quite forget what he’s talk-
ing about.
“I’m going to have a shower. Unless you’d like to shower first?” He cocks his head
to one side, still grinning. My heartbeat has picked up, and my medulla oblongata has ne-
glected to fire any synapses to make me breathe. His grin widens, and he reaches over and
runs his thumb down my cheek and across my lower lip.
“Breathe, Anastasia,” he whispers and rises. “Breakfast will be here in fifteen minutes.
You must be famished.” He heads into the bathroom and closes the door.
I let out the breath that I’ve been holding. Why is he so damned attractive? Right
now I want to go and join him in the shower. I have never felt this way about anyone. My
hormones are racing. My skin tingles where his thumb traced over my face and lower lip.
I feel like squirming with a needy, achy... discomfort. I don’t understand this reaction.
Hmm... Desire. This is desire. This is what it feels like.
I lie back on the soft feather filled pillows. ‘If you were mine.’ Oh my – what would I
do to be his? He’s the only man who has ever set my blood racing around my body. Yet,he’s so antagonizing too; he’s difficult, complicated, and confusing. One minute he rebuffs
me, the next he sends me fourteen-thousand-dollar books, then he tracks me like a stalker.
And for all that, I have spent the night in his hotel suite, and I feel safe. Protected. He cares
enough to come and rescue me from some mistakenly perceived danger. He’s not a dark
knight at all, but a white knight in shining, dazzling armor – a classic romantic hero – Sir
Gawain or Lancelot.
I scramble out of his bed frantically searching for my jeans. He emerges from the bath-
room wet and glistening from the shower, still unshaven, with just a towel around his waist,
and there am I – all bare legs and awkward gawkiness. He’s surprised to see me out of bed.
“If you’re looking for your jeans, I’ve sent them to the laundry.” His gaze is a dark
obsidian. “They were spattered with your vomit.”
“Oh.” I flush scarlet. Why oh why does he always catch me on the back foot?
“I sent Taylor out for another pair and some shoes. They’re in the bag on the chair.”
Clean clothes. What an unexpected bonus.
“Um... I’ll have a shower,” I mutter. “Thanks.” What else can I say? I grab the bag
and dart into the bathroom away from the unnerving proximity of naked Christian. Michel-
angelo’s David has nothing on him.
In the bathroom, it’s all hot and steamy from where he’s been showering. I strip off
my clothes and quickly clamber into the shower anxious to be under the cleansing stream
of water. It cascades over me, and I hold up my face into the welcoming torrent. I want
Christian Grey. I want him badly. Simple fact. For the first time in my life, I want to go
to bed with a man. I want to feel his hands and his mouth on me.
He said he likes his women sentient. He’s probably not celibate then. But he’s not
made a pass at me, unlike Paul or José. I don’t understand. Does he want me? He
wouldn’t kiss me last week. Am I repellent to him? And yet, I’m here and he brought me
here. I just don’t know what his game is? What he’s thinking? You’ve slept in his bed all
night, and he’s not touched you Ana. You do the math. My subconscious has reared her
ugly, snide head. I ignore her.
The water is warm and soothing. Hmm... I could stay under this shower, in his bath-
room, forever. I reach for the body-wash and it smells of him. It’s a delicious smell. I rub
it all over myself, fantasizing that it’s him - him rubbing this heavenly scented soap into
my body, across my breasts, over my stomach, between my thighs with his long fingered
hands. Oh my. My heartbeat picks up again, this feels so... so good.
“Breakfast is here.” He knocks on the door, startling me.
“Okay,” I stutter as I’m yanked cruelly out of my erotic daydream.
I climb out of the shower and grab two towels. I put my hair in one and wrap it Carmen
Miranda style on my head. Hastily, I dry myself, ignoring the pleasurable feel of the towel
rubbing against my over-sensitized skin.
I inspect the bag of jeans. Not only has Taylor brought me jeans and new Converse,
but a pale blue shirt, socks, and underwear. Oh my. A clean bra and panties – actually to
describe them in such a mundane, utilitarian way does not do them justice. They are an
exquisite design of some fancy European lingerie. All pale blue lace and finery. Wow. I
am in awe and slightly daunted by this underwear. . What’s more, they fit perfectly. But ofcourse they do. I flush to think of the Buzz-Cut man in some lingerie store buying this for
me. I wonder what else is in his job description.
I dress quickly. The rest of the clothing is a perfect fit. I brusquely towel-dry my hair
and try desperately to bring it under control. But, as usual, it refuses to cooperate, and my
only option is to restrain it with a hair tie. I shall search in my purse, when I find it. I take
a deep breath. Time to face Mr. Confusing.
I’m relieved to find the bedroom empty. I hunt quickly for my purse – but it’s not in
here. Taking another deep breath, I enter the living area of the suite. It’s huge. There’s an
opulent, plush seating area, all overstuffed couches and soft cushions, an elaborate coffee
table with a stack of large glossy books, a study area with a top-of-the-range Mac, an enor-
mous plasma screen TV on the wall, and Christian is sitting at a dining table on the other
side of the room reading a newspaper. It’s the size of a tennis court or something, not that
I play tennis, though I have watched Kate a few times. Kate!
“Crap, Kate,” I croak. Christian peers up at me.
“She knows you’re here and still alive. I texted Elliot,” he says with just a trace of
humor.
Oh no. I remember her fervent dancing of the night before. All her patented moves
used with maximum effect to seduce Christian’s brother no less! What’s she going to think
about me being here? I’ve never stayed out before. She’s still with Elliot. She’s only done
this twice before, and both times I’ve had to endure the hideous pink PJs for a week from
the fallout. She’s going to think I’ve had a one-night stand too.
Christian stares at me imperiously. He’s wearing a white linen shirt, collar and cuffs
undone.
“Sit,” he commands, pointing to a place at the table. I make my way across the room
and sit down opposite him as I’ve been directed. The table is laden with food.
“I didn’t know what you liked, so I ordered a selection from the breakfast menu.” He
gives me a crooked, apologetic smile.
“That’s very profligate of you,” I murmur, bewildered by the choice, though I am hun-
gry.
“Yes, it is.” He sounds guilty.
I opt for pancakes, maple syrup, scrambled eggs, and bacon. Christian tries to hide a
smile as he returns to his egg white omelet. The food is delicious.
“Tea?” he asks.
“Yes, please.”
He passes me a small teapot of hot water and on the saucer is a Twining’s English
Breakfast teabag. Jeez, he remembers how I like my tea.
“Your hair’s very damp,” he scolds.
“I couldn’t find the hairdryer,” I mutter, embarrassed. Not that I looked.
Christian’s mouth presses into a hard line, but he doesn’t say anything.
“Thank you for organizing the clothes.”
“It’s a pleasure, Anastasia. That color suits you.”
I blush and stare down at my fingers.
“You know, you really should learn to take a compliment.” His tone is castigating.
“I should give you some money for these clothes.”He glares at me as if I have offended him on some level. I hurry on.
“You’ve already given me the books, which, of course, I can’t accept. But these
clothes, please let me pay you back.” I smile tentatively at him.
“Anastasia, trust me, I can afford it.”
“That’s not the point. Why should you buy these for me?”
“Because I can,” his eyes flash with a wicked gleam.
“Just because you can doesn’t mean that you should,” I reply quietly as he arches an
eyebrow at me, his eyes twinkling, and suddenly I feel that we’re talking about something
else, but I don’t know what it is. Which reminds me...
“Why did you send me the books, Christian?” My voice is soft. He puts down his
cutlery and regards me intently, his gray eyes burning with some unfathomable emotion.
Holy crap – my mouth dries.
“Well, when you were nearly run over by the cyclist – and I was holding you and you
were looking up at me – all kiss me, kiss me, Christian,” he pauses and shrugs slightly, “I
felt I owed you an apology and a warning.” He runs his hand through his hair. “Anastasia,
I’m not a hearts and flowers kind of man, I don’t do romance. My tastes are very singular.
You should steer clear from me.” He closes his eyes as if in defeat. “There’s something
about you, though, and I’m finding it impossible to stay away. But I think you’ve figured
that out already.”
My appetite vanishes. He can’t stay away!
“Then don’t,” I whisper.
He gasps, his eyes wide.
“You don’t know what you’re saying.”
“Enlighten me, then.”
We sit gazing at each other, neither of us touching our food.
“You’re not celibate then?” I breathe.
Amusement lights up his gray eyes.
“No, Anastasia, I’m not celibate.” He pauses for this information to sink in, and I flush
scarlet. The mouth-to-brain filter is broken again. I can’t believe I’ve just said that out
loud.
“What are your plans for the next few days?” he asks, his voice low.
“I’m working today, from midday. What is the time?” I panic suddenly.
“It’s just after ten, you’ve plenty of time. What about tomorrow?” He has his elbows
on the table, and his chin is resting on his long steepled fingers.
“Kate and I are going to start packing. We’re moving to Seattle next weekend, and I’m
working at Clayton’s all this week.”
“You have a place in Seattle already?”
“Yes.”
“Where?”
“I can’t remember the address. It’s in the Pike Market District.”
“Not far from me,” his lips twitch up in a half smile. “So what are you going to do for
work in Seattle?”
Where is he going with all these questions? The Christian Grey Inquisition is almost
as irritating as the Katherine Kavanagh Inquisition.“I’ve applied for some internships. I’m waiting to hear.”
“Have you applied to my company as I suggested?”
I flush... of course not.
“Um... no.”
“And what’s wrong with my company?”
“Your company or your Company?” I smirk.
He smiles slightly.
“Are you smirking at me, Miss Steele?” He cocks his head to one side, and I think he
looks amused, but it’s hard to tell. I flush and glance down at my unfinished breakfast. I
can’t look him in the eye when he uses that tone of voice.
“I’d like to bite that lip,” he whispers darkly.
Oh my. I am completely unaware that I am chewing my bottom lip. My mouth pops
open as I gasp and swallow at the same time. That has to be the sexiest thing anybody has
ever said to me. My heart beat spikes, and I think I’m panting. Jeez, I’m a quivering, moist
mess, and he hasn’t even touched me. I squirm in my seat and meet his dark glare.
“Why don’t you?” I challenge quietly.
“Because I’m not going to touch you Anastasia - not until I have your written consent
to do so.” His lips hint at a smile.
What?
“What does that mean?”
“Exactly what I say.” He sighs and shakes his head at me, amused, but exasperated too.
“I need to show you, Anastasia. What time do you finish work this evening?”
“About eight.”
“Well, we could go to Seattle this evening or next Saturday for dinner at my place, and
I’ll acquaint you with the facts then. The choice is yours.”
“Why can’t you tell me now?” I sound petulant.
“Because I’m enjoying my breakfast and your company. Once you’re enlightened, you
probably won’t want to see me again.”
Holy shit. What does that mean? Does he white-slave small children to some God-
forsaken part of the planet? Is he part of some underworld crime syndicate? It would ex-
plain why he’s so rich. Is he deeply religious? Is he impotent? Surely not, he could prove
that to me right now. Oh my. I flush scarlet thinking about the possibilities. This is getting
me nowhere. I’d like to solve the riddle that is Christian Grey sooner rather than later. If it
means that whatever secret he has is so gross that I don’t want to know him any more then,
quite frankly, it will be a relief. Don’t lie to yourself – my subconscious yells at me– it’ll
have to be pretty bloody bad to have you running for the hills.
“Tonight.”
He raises an eyebrow.
“Like Eve, you’re so quick to eat from the tree of knowledge,” he smirks.
“Are you smirking at me, Mr. Grey?” I ask sweetly. Pompous ass.
He narrows his eyes at me and picks up his BlackBerry. He presses one number.
“Taylor. I’m going to need Charlie Tango.”
Charlie Tango! Who’s he?
“From Portland at say twenty-thirty... No, standby at Escala... All night.”All night!
“Yes. On call tomorrow morning. I’ll pilot from Portland to Seattle.”
Pilot?
“Standby pilot from twenty-two-thirty.” He puts the phone down. No please or thank
you.
“Do people always do what you tell them?”
“Usually, if they want to keep their jobs,” he says, deadpan.
“And if they don’t work for you?”
“Oh, I can be very persuasive, Anastasia. You should finish your breakfast. And then
I’ll drop you home. I’ll pick you up at Clayton’s at eight when you finish. We’ll fly up to
Seattle.”
I blink at him rapidly.
“Fly?”
“Yes. I have a helicopter.”
I gape at him. I have my second date with Christian oh-so-mysterious Grey. From
coffee to helicopter rides. Wow.
“We’ll go by helicopter to Seattle?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
He grins wickedly.
“Because I can. Finish your breakfast.”
How can I eat now? I’m going to Seattle by helicopter with Christian Grey. And he
wants to bite my lip... I squirm at the thought
“Eat,” he says more sharply. “Anastasia, I have an issue with wasted food... eat.”
“I can’t eat all this.” I gape at what’s left on the table.
“Eat what’s on your plate. If you’d eaten properly yesterday, you wouldn’t be here, and
I wouldn’t be declaring my hand so soon.” His mouth sets in a grim line. He looks angry.
I frown and return to my now cold food. I’m too excited to eat, Christian. Don’t you
understand? My subconscious explains. But I’m too much of a coward to voice these
thoughts aloud, especially when he looks so sullen. Hmm, like a small boy. I find the
thought amusing.
“What’s so funny?” he asks. I shake my head, not daring tell him and keep my eyes
on my food. Swallowing my last piece of pancake, I peek up at him. He’s eyeing me
speculatively.
“Good girl,” he says. “I’ll take you home when you’ve dried your hair. I don’t want
you getting ill.” There’s some kind of unspoken promise in his words. What does he
mean? I leave the table, wondering for a moment if I should ask permission but dismissing
the idea. Sounds like a dangerous precedent to set. I head back to his bedroom. A thought
stops me.
“Where did you sleep last night?” I turn to gaze at him still sitting in the dining room
chair. I can’t see any blankets or sheets out here – perhaps he’s had them tidied away.
“In my bed,” he says simply, his gaze impassive again.
“Oh.”
“Yes, it was quite a novelty for me too.” He smiles.“Not having... sex.” There – I said the word. I blush – of course.
“No,” he shakes his head and frowns as if recalling something uncomfortable. “Sleep-
ing with someone.” He picks up his newspaper and continues to read.
What in heaven’s name does that mean? He’s never slept with anyone? He’s a vir-
gin? Somehow I doubt that. I stand staring at him in disbelief. He is the most mystifying
person I’ve ever met. And it dawns on me that I have slept with Christian Grey, and I kick
myself – what would I have given to be conscious to watch him sleep. See him vulnerable.
Somehow, I find that hard to imagine. Well, allegedly all will be revealed tonight.
In his bedroom, I hunt through a chest of drawers and find the hair dryer. Using my
fingers, I dry my hair the best I can. When I’ve finished, I head into the bathroom. I want
to clean my teeth. I eye Christian’s toothbrush. It would be like having him in my mouth.
Hmm... Glancing guiltily over my shoulder at the door, I feel the bristles on the toothbrush.
They are damp. He must have used it already. Grabbing it quickly, I squirt toothpaste on
it and brush my teeth in double quick time. I feel so naughty. It’s such a thrill.
Grabbing my t-shirt, bra, and panties from yesterday, I put them in the shopping bag
that Taylor brought and head back to the living area to hunt for my bag and jacket. Deep
joy, there is a hair tie in my bag. Christian is watching me as I tie my hair into a ponytail,
his expression unreadable. I feel his eyes follow me as I sit down and wait for him to finish.
He’s on his BlackBerry talking to someone.
“They want two?... How much will that cost?... Okay, and what safety measures do we
have in place?... And they’ll go via Suez?... How safe is Ben Sudan?... And when do they
arrive in Darfur?... Okay, let’s do it. Keep me abreast of progress.” He hangs up.
“Ready to go?”
I nod. I wonder what his conversation was about. He slips on a navy pinstriped jacket,
picks up his car keys, and heads for the door.
“After you, Miss Steele,” he murmurs, opening the door for me. He looks so casually
elegant.
I pause, fractionally too long, drinking in the sight of him. And to think I slept with
him last night and, after all the tequila and the throwing up, he’s still here. What’s more, he
wants to take me to Seattle. Why me? I don’t understand it. I head out the door recalling
his words – There’s something about you – Well the feeling is entirely mutual Mr. Grey,
and I aim to find out what it is.
We walk in silence down the corridor toward the elevator. As we wait, I peek up at
him through my lashes, and he looks out of the corner of his eyes down at me. I smile, and
his lips twitch.
The elevator arrives, and we step in. We’re alone. Suddenly, for some inexplica-
ble reason, possibly our proximity in such an enclosed space, the atmosphere between us
changes, charging with an electric, exhilarating anticipation. My breathing alters as my
heart races. His head turns fractionally toward me, his eyes darkest slate. I bite my lip.
“Oh, fuck the paperwork,” he growls. He lunges at me, pushing me against the wall
of the elevator. Before I know it, he’s got both of my hands in one of his in a vice-like grip
above my head, and he’s pinning me to the wall using his hips. Holy shit. His other hand
grabs my ponytail and yanks down, bringing my face up, and his lips are on mine. It’s
only just not painful. I moan into his mouth, giving his tongue an opening. He takes fulladvantage, his tongue expertly exploring my mouth. I have never been kissed like this.
My tongue tentatively strokes his and joins his in a slow erotic dance that’s all about touch
and sensation, all bump and grind. He brings his hand up to grasp my chin and holds me
in place. I am helpless, my hands pinned, my face held, and his hips restraining me. . I feel
his erection against my belly. Oh my... He wants me. Christian Grey, Greek god, wants
me, and I want him, here... now, in the elevator.
“You. Are. So. Sweet,” he murmurs, each word a staccato.
The elevator stops, the doors open, and he pushes away from me in the blink of an eye,
leaving me hanging. Three men in business suits look at both of us and smirk as they climb
on board. My heart rate is through the roof, I feel like I’ve run an uphill race. I want to
lean over and grasp my knees... but that’s just too obvious.
I glance up at him. He looks so cool and calm, like he’s been doing the Seattle Times
crossword. How unfair. Is he totally unaffected by my presence? He glances at me out
of the corner of his eye, and he gently blows out a deep breath. Oh, he’s affected all right
– and my very small inner goddess sways in a gentle victorious samba. The businessmen
exit on the second floor. We have one more floor to travel.
“You’ve brushed your teeth,” he says, staring at me.
“I used your toothbrush,” I breathe.
His lips quirk up in a half smile.
“Oh, Anastasia Steele, what am I going to do with you?”
The doors open at the first floor, and he takes my hand and pulls me out.
“What is it about elevators?” he mutters, more to himself than to me as he strides
across the lobby. I struggle to keep pace with him because my wits have been thoroughly,
royally, scattered all over the floor and walls of elevator three in the Heathman Hotel.Christian opens the passenger door to the black Audi SUV, and I clamber in. It’s a beast of
a car. He hasn’t mentioned the outburst of passion that exploded in the elevator. Should
I? Should we talk about it or pretend that it didn’t happen? It hardly seems real, my first
proper no-holds-barred kiss. As time ticks on, I assign it mythical, Arthurian legend, Lost
City of Atlantis status. It never happened, it never existed. Perhaps I imagined it all. No.
I touch my lips, swollen from his kiss. It definitely happened. I am a changed woman. I
want this man, desperately, and he wanted me.
I glance at him. Christian is his usual polite, slightly distant self.
How confusing.
He starts the engine and reverses out of his space in the parking lot. He switches on the
MP3 player. The car interior is filled with the sweetest, most magical music of two women
singing. Oh wow... all my senses are in disarray, so this is doubly affecting. It sends deli-
cious shivers up my spine. Christian pulls out on to SW Park Avenue, and he drives with
easy, lazy confidence.
“What are we listening to?”
“It’s the Flower Duet by Delibes, from the opera Lakmé. Do you like it?”
“Christian, it’s wonderful.”“It is, isn’t it?” he grins, glancing at me. And for a fleeting moment, he seems his age;
young, carefree, and heart-stoppingly beautiful. Is this the key to him? Music? I sit and
listen to the angelic voices, teasing and seducing me.
“Can I hear that again?”
“Of course.” Christian pushes a button, and the music is caressing me once more. It’s
a gentle, slow, sweet, and sure assault on my aural senses.
“You like classical music?” I ask, hoping for a rare insight into his personal prefer-
ences.
“My taste is eclectic, Anastasia, everything from Thomas Tallis to the Kings of Leon.
It depends on my mood. You?”
“Me too. Though I don’t know who Thomas Tallis is.”
He turns and gazes at me briefly before his eyes are back on the road.
“I’ll play it for you sometime. He’s a sixteenth century British composer. Tudor,
church choral music.” Christian grins at me. “Sounds very esoteric, I know, but it’s also
magical, Anastasia.”
He presses a button, and the Kings of Leon start singing. Hmm... this I know. Sex on
Fire. How appropriate. The music is interrupted by the sound of a cell phone ringing over
the MP3 speakers. Christian hits a button on the steering wheel.
“Grey,” he snaps. He’s so brusque.
“Mr. Grey, it’s Welch here. I have the information you require.” A rasping, disembod-
ied voice comes over the speakers.
“Good. Email it to me. Anything to add?”
“No sir.”
He presses the button, then the call ceases and the music is back. No goodbye or
thanks. I’m so glad that I never seriously entertained the thought of working for him. I
shudder at the very idea. He’s just too controlling and cold with his employees. The music
cuts off again for the phone.
“Grey.”
“The NDA has been emailed to you, Mr. Grey.” A woman’s voice.
“Good. That’s all, Andrea.”
“Good day, sir.”
Christian hangs up by pressing a button on the steering wheel. The music is on very
briefly when the phone rings again. Holy hell, is this his life, constant nagging phone calls?
“Grey,” he snaps.
“Hi, Christian, d’you get laid?”
“Hello, Elliot – I’m on speaker phone, and I’m not alone in the car,” Christian sighs.
“Who’s with you?”
Christian rolls his eyes.
“Anastasia Steele.”
“Hi, Ana!”
Ana!
“Hello, Elliot.”
“Heard a lot about you,” Elliot murmurs huskily. Christian frowns.
“Don’t believe a word Kate says.”Elliot laughs.
“I’m dropping Anastasia off now.” Christian emphasizes my name. “Shall I pick you
up?”
“Sure.”
“See you shortly.” Christian hangs up, and the music is back.
“Why do you insist on calling me Anastasia?”
“Because it’s your name.”
“I prefer Ana.”
“Do you now?” he murmurs.
We are almost at my apartment. It’s not taken long.
“Anastasia,” he muses. I scowl at him, but he ignores my expression. “What happened
in the elevator - it won’t happen again, well, not unless it’s premeditated.”
He pulls up outside my duplex. I belatedly realize he’s not asked me where I live - yet
he knows. But then he sent the books, of course he knows where I live. What able, cell-
phone-tracking, helicopter owning, stalker wouldn’t.
Why won’t he kiss me again? I pout at the thought. I don’t understand. Honestly,
his surname should be Cryptic, not Grey. He climbs out of the car, walking with easy,
long-legged grace round to my side to open the door, ever the gentleman - except perhaps
in rare, precious moments in elevators. I flush at the memory of his mouth on mine, and
the thought that I’d been unable to touch him enters my mind. I wanted to run my fingers
through his decadent, untidy hair, but I’d been unable to move my hands. I am retrospec-
tively frustrated.
“I liked what happened in the elevator,” I murmur as I climb out of the car. I’m not sure
if I hear an audible gasp, but I choose to ignore it and head up the steps to the front door.
Kate and Elliot are sitting at our dining table. The fourteen-thousand-dollar books
have disappeared. Thank heavens. I have plans for them. She has the most un-Kate ridicu-
lous grin on her face, and she looks mussed up in a sexy kind of way. Christian follows me
into the living area, and in spite of her I’ve-been-having-a-good-time-all-night grin, Kate
eyes him suspiciously.
“Hi Ana.” She leaps up to hug me, then holds me at arm’s length so she can examine
me. She frowns and turns to Christian.
“Good morning, Christian,” she says, and her tone is a little hostile.
“Miss Kavanagh,” he says in his stiff formal way.
“Christian, her name is Kate,” Elliot grumbles.
“Kate.” Christian gives her a polite nod and glares at Elliot who grins and rises to hug
me too.
“Hi, Ana,” he smiles, his blue eyes twinkling, and I like him immediately. He’s obvi-
ously nothing like Christian, but then they’re adopted brothers.
“Hi, Elliot,” I smile at him, and I’m aware that I’m biting my lip.
“Elliot, we’d better go.” Christian says mildly.
“Sure.” He turns to Kate and pulls her into his arms and gives her a long lingering kiss.
Jeez... get a room. I stare at my feet, embarrassed. I glance up at Christian, and he’s
watching me intently. I narrow my eyes at him. Why can’t you kiss me like that? Elliotcontinues to kiss Kate, sweeping her off her feet and dipping her in a dramatic hold so that
her hair touches the ground as he kisses her hard.
“Laters, baby,” he grins.
Kate just melts. I’ve never seen her melt before – the words comely and compliant
come to mind. Compliant Kate, boy, Elliot must be good. Christian rolls his eyes and
stares down at me, his expression unreadable, although maybe he’s mildly amused. He
tucks a stray strand of my hair that has worked its way free from my ponytail behind my
ear. My breath hitches at the contact, and I lean my head slightly into his fingers. His eyes
soften, and he runs his thumb across my lower lip. My blood sears in my veins. And all
too quickly, his touch is gone.
“Laters, baby,” he murmurs, and I have to laugh because it’s so unlike him. But even
though I know he’s being irreverent, the endearment tugs at something deep inside me.
“I’ll pick you up at eight.” He turns to leave, opening the front door and stepping out
on to the porch. Elliot follows him to the car but turns and blows Kate another kiss, and I
feel an unwelcome pang of jealousy.
“So, did you?” Kate asks as we watch them climb into the car and drive off, the burning
curiosity evident in her voice.
“No,” I snap irritably, hoping that will halt the questions. We head back into the apart-
ment. “You obviously did, though.” I can’t contain my envy. Kate always manages to
ensnare men. She is irresistible, beautiful, sexy, funny, forward... all the things that I’m
not. But her answering grin is infectious.
“And I’m seeing him again this evening.” She claps her hands and jumps up and down
like a small child. She cannot contain her excitement and happiness, and I can’t help but
feel happy for her. A happy Kate... this is going to be interesting.
“Christian is taking me to Seattle this evening.”
“Seattle?”
“Yes.”
“Maybe you will then?”
“Oh, I hope so.”
“You like him then?”
“Yes.”
“Like him enough to... ?”
“Yes.”
She raises her eyebrows.
“Wow. Ana Steele, finally falling for a man, and it’s Christian Grey – hot, sexy bil-
lionaire.”
“Oh yeah – it’s all about the money.” I smirk, and we both fall into a fit of giggles.
“Is that a new blouse?” she asks, and I let her have all the unexciting details about my
night.
“Has he kissed you yet?” she asks as she makes coffee.
I blush.
“Once.”
“Once!” she scoffs.
I nod, rather shame faced.“He’s very reserved.”
She frowns.
“That’s odd.”
“I don’t think odd covers it really,” I murmur.
“We need to make sure you’re simply irresistible for this evening,” she says with de-
termination.
Oh no... this sounds like it will be time consuming, humiliating, and painful.
“I have to be at work in an hour.”
“I can work with that timeframe. Come on.” Kate grabs my hand and takes me into
her bedroom.
The day drags at Clayton’s even though we’re busy. We’ve hit the summer season, so I
have to spend two hours restocking the shelves once the shop is closed. It’s mindless work,
and it gives me too much time to think. I’ve not really had a chance all day.
Under Kate’s tireless and frankly intrusive instruction, my legs and underarms are
shaved to perfection, my eyebrows plucked, and I am buffed all over. It has been a most
unpleasant experience. But she assures me that this is what men expect these days. What
else will he expect? I have to convince Kate that this is what I want to do. For some
strange reason, she doesn’t trust him, maybe because he’s so stiff and formal. She says she
can’t put her finger on it, but I have promised to text her when I arrive in Seattle. I haven’t
told her about the helicopter, she’d freak.
I also have the José issue. He’s left three messages and seven missed calls on my cell.
He’s also called home twice. Kate has been very vague as to where I am. He’ll know she’s
covering for me. Kate doesn’t do vague. But I have decided to let him stew. I’m still too
angry with him.
Christian mentioned some kind of written paperwork, and I don’t know if he was jok-
ing or if I’m going to have to sign something. It’s so frustrating trying to guess. And on
top of all the angst, I can barely contain my excitement or my nerves. Tonight’s the night!
After all this time, am I ready for this? My inner goddess glares at me, tapping her small
foot impatiently. She’s been ready for this for years, and she’s ready for anything with
Christian Grey, but I still don’t understand what he sees in me... mousey Ana Steele - it
makes no sense.
He is punctual, of course, and waiting for me when I leave Clayton’s. He climbs out
of the back of the Audi to open the door and smiles warmly at me.
“Good evening, Miss Steele,” he says.
“Mr. Grey.” I nod politely to him as I climb into the backseat of the car. Taylor is sit-
ting in the driver’s seat.
“Hello, Taylor,” I say.
“Good evening, Miss Steele,” his voice is polite and professional. Christian climbs in
the other side and clasps my hand, giving it a gentle squeeze that I feel all the way though
my body.
“How was work?” he asks.
“Very long,” I reply, and my voice is husky, too low, and full of need.“Yes, it’s been a long day for me too.” His tone is serious.
“What did you do?” I manage.
“I went hiking with Elliot.” His thumb strokes my knuckles, back and forth, and my
heart skips a beat as my breathing accelerates. How does he do this to me? He’s only
touching a very small area of my body, and the hormones are flying.
The drive to the heliport is short and, before I know it, we arrive. I wonder where the
fabled helicopter might be. We’re in a built-up area of the city and even I know helicopters
need space to take off and land. Taylor parks, climbs out, and opens my car door. Christian
is beside me in an instant and takes my hand again.
“Ready?” he asks. I nod and want to say for anything, but I can’t articulate the words
as I’m too nervous, too excited.
“Taylor.” He nods curtly at his driver, and we head into the building, straight to a set
of elevators. Elevator! The memory of our kiss this morning comes back to haunt me.
I have thought of nothing else all day. Daydreaming at the register at Clayton’s. Twice
Mr. Clayton had to shout my name to bring me back to Earth. To say I’ve been distracted
would be the understatement of the year. Christian glances down at me, a slight smile on
his lips. Ha! He’s thinking about it too.
“It’s only three floors,” he says dryly, his gray eyes dancing with amusement. He’s
telepathic surely. It’s spooky.
I try to keep my face impassive as we enter the elevator. The doors close, and it’s there,
the weird electrical attraction crackling between us, enslaving me. I close my eyes in a
vain attempt to ignore it. He tightens his grip on my hand, and five seconds later the doors
open on to the roof of the building. And there it is, a white helicopter with the name Grey
Enterprises Holdings Inc. written in blue with the company logo on the side. Surely this is
misuse of Company property.
He leads me to a small office where an old timer sits behind the desk.
“Here’s your flight plan, Mr. Grey. All external checks are done. It’s ready and waiting
sir. You’re free to go.”
“Thank you, Joe.” Christian smiles warmly at him.
Oh. Someone deserving of the polite treatment from Christian, perhaps he’s not an
employee. I stare at the old guy in awe.
“Let’s go,” Christian says, and we make our way toward the helicopter. When we’re
up close, it’s much bigger than I thought. I expected it to be a roadster version for two,
but it has at least seven seats. Christian opens the door and directs me to one of the seats
at the very front.
“Sit – don’t touch anything,” he orders as he clambers in behind me.
He shuts the door with a slam. I’m glad that the area is floodlit, otherwise I’d find it
difficult to see inside the small cockpit. I sit down in my allotted seat, and he crouches
beside me to strap me into the harness. It’s a four-point harness with all the straps con-
necting to one central buckle. He tightens both of the upper straps, so I can hardly move.
He’s so close and intent on what he’s doing. If I could only lean forward, my nose would
be in his hair. He smells, clean, fresh, heavenly, but I’m fastened securely into my seat and
effectively immobile. He glances up and smiles, like he’s enjoying his usual private joke,his gray eyes heated. He’s so tantalizingly close. I hold my breath as he pulls at one of the
upper straps.
“You’re secure, no escaping,” he whispers, his eyes are scorching. “Breathe, Anasta-
sia,” he adds softly. Reaching up, he caresses my cheek, running his long fingers down to
my chin which he grasps between his thumb and forefinger. He leans forward and plants
a brief, chaste kiss on my lips, leaving me reeling, my insides clenching at the thrilling,
unexpected touch of his lips.
“I like this harness,” he whispers.
What?
He sits down beside me and buckles himself into his seat, then begins a protracted pro-
cedure of checking gauges and flipping switches and buttons from the mind-boggling array
of dials and lights and switches in front of me. Little lights wink and flash from various
dials, and the whole of the instrument panel lights up.
“Put your cans on,” he says, pointing to a set of headphones in front of me. I pop them
on, and the rotor blades start. They are deafening. He puts his headphones on and contin-
ues flipping various switches.
“I’m just going through all the pre-flight checks.” Christian’s disembodied voice is in
my ears through the headphones. I turn and grin at him.
“Do you know what you are doing?” I ask. He turns and smiles at me.
“I’ve been a fully qualified pilot for four years, Anastasia, you’re safe with me.” He
gives me a wolfish grin. “Well, while we’re flying,” he adds and winks at me.
Winking... Christian!
“Are you ready?”
I nod wide eyed.
“Okay, tower. PDX this is Charlie Tango Golf – Golf Echo Hotel, cleared for take-off.
Please confirm, over.”
“Charlie Tango - you are clear. PDX to call, proceed to one four thousand, heading
zero one zero, over. ”
“Roger tower, Charlie Tango set, over and out. Here we go,” he adds to me, and the
helicopter rises slowly and smoothly into the air.
Portland disappears in front us as we head into US airspace, though my stomach re-
mains firmly in Oregon. Whoa! All the bright lights shrink until they are twinkling sweetly
below us. It’s like looking out from inside a fish bowl. Once we’re higher, there really is
nothing to see. It’s pitch black, not even the moon to shed any light on our journey. How
can he see where we’re going?
“Eerie isn’t it?” Christian’s voice is in my ears.
“How do you know you’re going the right way?”
“Here.” He points his long index finger at one of the gauges, and it shows an electronic
compass. “This is an EC135 Eurocopter. One of the safest in its class. It’s equipped for
night flight.” He glances and grins at me.
“There’s a helipad on top of the building I live in. That’s where we’re heading.”
Of course there’s a helipad where he lives. I am so out of my league here. His face
is softly illuminated by the lights on the instrument panel. He’s concentrating hard, and
he’s continually glancing at the various dials in front of him. I drink in his features frombeneath my lashes. He has a beautiful profile. Straight nose, square jawed – I’d like to
run my tongue along his jaw. He hasn’t shaved, and his stubble makes the prospect doubly
tempting. Hmm... I’d like to feel how rough it is beneath my tongue, my fingers, against
my face.
“When you fly at night, you fly blind. You have to trust the instrumentation,” he inter-
rupts my erotic reverie.
“How long will the flight be?” I manage breathlessly. I wasn’t thinking about sex at
all, no, no way.
“Less than an hour, the wind is in our favor.”
Hmm, less than an hour to Seattle... that’s not bad going, no wonder we’re flying.
I have less than an hour before the big reveal. All the muscles clench deep in my belly.
I have a serious case of butterflies. They are flourishing in my stomach. Holy shit, what
has he got in store for me?
“You okay, Anastasia?”
“Yes.” My answer is short, clipped, squeezed out through my nerves.
I think he smiles, but it’s difficult to tell in the darkness. Christian flicks yet another
switch.
“PDX this is Charlie Tango now at one four thousand, over.” He exchanges informa-
tion with air traffic control. It all sounds very professional to me. I think we’re moving
from Portland’s air space to Seattle International Airport’s.
“Understood Sea-Tac, standing by over and out.”
“Look, over there.” He points to a small pin-point of light in the far distance. “That’s
Seattle.”
“Do you always impress women this way? Come and fly in my helicopter?” I ask,
genuinely interested.
“I’ve never bought a girl up here, Anastasia. It’s another first for me.” His voice is
quiet, serious.
Oh, that was an unexpected answer. Another first? Oh the sleeping thing, perhaps?
“Are you impressed?”
“I’m awed, Christian.”
He smiles.
“Awed?” And for a brief moment, he’s his age again.
I nod.
“You’re just so... competent.”
“Why, thank you, Miss Steele,” he says politely. I think he’s pleased, but I’m not sure.
We ride into the dark night in silence for a while. The bright spot that is Seattle is
slowly getting bigger.
“Sea-Tac tower to Charlie Tango. Flight plan to Escala in place. Please proceed. And
standby. Over.”
“This is Charlie Tango, understood Sea-Tac. Standing by, over and out.”
“You obviously enjoy this,” I murmur.
“What?” He glances at me. He looks quizzical in the half-light of the instruments.
“Flying,” I reply.“It requires control and concentration... how could I not love it? Though, my favorite
is soaring.”
“Soaring?”
“Yes. Gliding to the layperson. Gliders and helicopters – I fly them both.”
“Oh.” Expensive hobbies. I remember him telling me during the interview. I like read-
ing and occasionally going to the movies. I am out of my depth here.
“Charlie Tango come in please, over.” The disembodied voice of air traffic control
interrupts my reverie. Christian answers, sounding in control and confident.
Seattle is getting closer. We are on the very outskirts now. Wow! It looks absolutely
stunning. Seattle at night, from the sky...
“Looks good, doesn’t it?” Christian murmurs.
I nod enthusiastically. It looks otherworldly – unreal – and I feel like I’m on a giant
film set, José’s favorite film maybe, ‘Bladerunner.’ The memory of José’s attempted kiss
haunts me. I’m beginning to feel a bit cruel not calling him back. He can wait until tomor-
row... surely.
“We’ll be there in a few minutes,” Christian mutters, and suddenly my blood is pound-
ing in my ears as my heartbeat accelerates and adrenaline spikes through my system. He
starts talking to air traffic control again, but I am no longer listening. Oh my... I think I’m
going to faint. My fate is in his hands.
We are now flying amongst the buildings, and up ahead I can see a tall skyscraper with
a helipad on top. The word Escala is painted in white on top of the building. It’s getting
nearer and nearer, bigger and bigger... like my anxiety. God, I hope I don’t let him down.
He’ll find me lacking in some way. I wish I’d listened to Kate and borrowed one of her
dresses, but I like my black jeans, and I’m wearing a soft mint green shirt and Kate’s black
jacket. I look smart enough. I grip the edge of my seat tighter and tighter. I can do this. I
can do this. I chant this mantra as the skyscraper looms below us.
The helicopter slows and hovers, and Christian sets it down on the helipad on top of the
building. My heart is in my mouth. I can’t decide if it’s from nervous anticipation, relief
that we’ve arrived alive, or fear that I will fail in some way. He switches the ignition off
and the rotor blades slow and quiet until all I hear is the sound of my own erratic breathing.
Christian takes his headphones off, and reaches across and pulls mine off too.
“We’re here,” he says softly.
His look is so intense, half in shadow and half in the bright white light from the land-
ing lights. Dark knight and white knight, it’s a fitting metaphor for Christian. He looks
strained. His jaw is clenched and his eyes are tight. He unfastens his seatbelt and reaches
over to unbuckle mine. His face is inches from mine.
“You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to do. You know that don’t you?” His
tone is so earnest, desperate even, his gray eyes impassioned. He takes me by surprise.
“I’d never do anything I didn’t want to do, Christian.” And as I say the words, I don’t
quite feel their conviction because at this moment in time – I’d probably do anything for
this man seated beside me. But this does the trick. He’s mollified.
He eyes me warily for a moment and somehow, even though he’s so tall, he manages
to ease his way gracefully to the door of the helicopter and open it. He jumps out, waiting
for me to follow, and takes my hand as I clamber down on to the helipad. It’s very windyon top of the building, and I’m nervous about the fact that I’m standing at least thirty stories
high in an unenclosed space. Christian wraps his arm around my waist, pulling me tightly
against him.
“Come,” he shouts above the noise of the wind. He drags me over to an elevator shaft
and, after tapping a number into a keypad, the doors open. It’s warm inside and all mir-
rored glass. I can see Christian to infinity everywhere I look, and the wonderful thing is,
he’s holding me to infinity too. Christian taps another code into the keypad, then the doors
close and the elevator descends.
Moments later, we’re in an all-white foyer. In the middle is a round, dark wood table,
and on it is an unbelievably huge bunch of white flowers. On the walls there are paintings,
everywhere. He opens two double doors, and the white theme continues through the wide
corridor and directly opposite where a palatial room opens up. It’s the main living area,
double height. Huge is too small a word for it. The far wall is glass and leads on to a bal-
cony that overlooks Seattle.
To the right is an imposing ‘U’ shaped sofa that could sit ten adults comfortably. It fac-
es a state-of-the-art stainless steel – or maybe platinum for all I know - modern fireplace.
The fire is lit and flaming gently. On the left beside us, by the entryway, is the kitchen area.
All white with dark wood worktops and a large breakfast bar which seats six.
Near the kitchen area, in front of the glass wall, is a dining table surrounded by sixteen
chairs. And tucked in the corner is a full size, shiny black grand piano. Oh yes... he prob-
ably plays the piano too. There is art of all shapes and sizes on all the walls. In fact, this
apartment looks more like a gallery than a place to live.
“Can I take your jacket?” Christian asks. I shake my head. I’m still cold from the wind
on the helipad.
“Would you like a drink?” he asks. I blink at him. After last night! Is he trying to be
funny? For one second, I think about asking for a margarita – but I don’t have the nerve.
“I’m going to have a glass of white wine, would you like to join me?”
“Yes, please,” I murmur.
I am standing in this enormous room feeling out of place. I walk over to the glass wall,
and I realize that the lower half of the wall opens concertina-style on to the balcony. Se-
attle is lit up and lively in the background. I walk back to the kitchen area – it takes a few
seconds, it’s so far from the glass wall – and Christian is opening a bottle of wine. He’s
removed his jacket.
“Pouilly Fumé okay with you?”
“I know nothing about wine, Christian. I’m sure it will be fine.” My voice is soft and
hesitant. My heart is thumping. I want to run. This is seriously rich. Seriously over-the-
top Bill Gates style wealthy. What am I doing here? You know very well what you’re doing
here - my subconscious sneers at me. Yes, I want to be in Christian Grey’s bed.
“Here.” He hands me a glass of wine. Even the glasses are rich... heavy, contempo-
rary, crystal. I take a sip, and the wine is light, crisp, and delicious.
“You’re very quiet, and you’re not even blushing. In fact – I think this is the palest I’ve
ever seen you, Anastasia,” he murmurs. “Are you hungry?”
I shake my head. Not for food.
“It’s a very big place you have here.”“Big?”
“Big.”
“It’s big,” he agrees, and his eyes glow with amusement. I take another sip of wine.
“Do you play?” I point my chin at the piano.
“Yes.”
“Well?”
“Yes.”
“Of course you do. Is there anything you can’t do well?”
“Yes... a few things.” He takes a sip of his wine. He doesn’t take his eyes off me. I feel
them following me as I turn and glance around this vast room. Room is the wrong word.
It’s not a room – it’s a mission statement.
“Do you want to sit?”
I nod, and he takes my hand and leads me to the large off-white couch. As I sit, I’m
struck by the fact that I feel like Tess Durbeyfield looking at the new house that belongs to
the notorious Alec D’Urberville. The thought makes me smile.
“What’s so amusing?” He sits down beside me, turning to face me. He rests his head
on his right hand, his elbow propped on the back of the couch.
“Why did you give me Tess of the D’Urbervilles specifically?” I ask. Christian stares
at me for a moment. I think he’s surprised by my question.
“Well, you said you liked Thomas Hardy.”
“Is that the only reason?” Even I can hear the disappointment in my voice. His mouth
presses into a hard line.
“It seemed appropriate. I could hold you to some impossibly high ideal like Angel
Clare or debase you completely like Alec D’Urberville,” he murmurs, and his gray eyes
flash dark and dangerous.
“If there are only two choices, I’ll take the debasement.” I whisper, gazing at him. My
subconscious is staring at me in awe. He gasps.
“Anastasia, stop biting your lip, please. It’s very distracting. You don’t know what
you’re saying.”
“That’s why I’m here.”
He frowns.
“Yes. Would you excuse me a moment?” He disappears through a wide doorway on
the far side of the room. He’s gone for a couple of minutes and returns with a document.
“This is a non-disclosure agreement.” He shrugs and has the grace to look a little em-
barrassed. “My lawyer insists on it.” He hands it to me. I’m completely bemused. “If
you’re going for option two, debasement, you’ll need to sign this.”
“And if I don’t want to sign anything?”
“Then it’s Angel Clare high ideals, well, for most of the book anyway.”
“What does this agreement mean?”
“It means you cannot disclose anything about us. Anything, to anyone.”
I stare at him in disbelief. Holy shit. It’s bad, really bad, and now I’m very curious to
know.
“Okay. I’ll sign.”
He hands me a pen.“Aren’t you even going to read it?”
“No.”
He frowns.
“Anastasia, you should always read anything you sign,” he admonishes me.
“Christian, what you fail to understand is that I wouldn’t talk about us to anyone,
anyway. Even Kate. So it’s immaterial whether I sign an agreement or not. If it means so
much to you, or your lawyer... whom you obviously talk to, then fine. I’ll sign.”
He gazes down at me, and he nods gravely.
“Fair point well made, Miss Steele.”
I lavishly sign on the dotted line of both copies and hand one back to him. Folding the
other, I place it my purse and take a large swig of my wine. I’m sounding so much braver
than I’m actually feeling.
“Does this mean you’re going to make love to me tonight, Christian?” Holy shit. Did
I just say that? His mouth drops open slightly, but he recovers quickly.
“No, Anastasia it doesn’t. Firstly, I don’t make love. I fuck... hard. Secondly, there’s
a lot more paperwork to do, and thirdly, you don’t yet know what you’re in for. You could
still run for the hills. Come, I want to show you my playroom.”
My mouth drops open. Fuck hard! Holy shit, that sounds so... hot. But why are we
looking at a playroom? I am mystified.
“You want to play on your Xbox?” I ask. He laughs, loudly.
“No, Anastasia, no Xbox, no Playstation. Come.” He stands, holding out his hand. I let
him lead me back out to the corridor. On the right of the double doors, where we came in,
another door leads to a staircase. We go up to the second floor and turn right. Producing a
key from his pocket, he unlocks yet another door and takes a deep breath.
“You can leave anytime. The helicopter is on stand-by to take you whenever you want
to go, you can stay the night and go home in the morning. It’s fine whatever you decide.”
“Just open the damn door, Christian.”
He opens the door and stands back to let me in. I gaze at him once more. I so want to
know what’s in here. Taking a deep breath I walk in.
And it feels like I’ve time-traveled back to the sixteenth century and the Spanish In-
quisition.
Holy fuck.The first thing I notice is the smell; leather, wood, polish with a faint citrus scent. It’s very
pleasant, and the lighting is soft, subtle. In fact, I can’t see the source, but it’s around the
cornice in the room, emitting an ambient glow. The walls and ceiling are a deep, dark bur-
gundy, giving a womb-like effect to the spacious room, and the floor is old, old varnished
wood. There is a large wooden cross like an X fastened to the wall facing the door. It’s
made of high-polished mahogany, and there are restraining cuffs on each corner. Above it
is an expansive iron grid suspended from the ceiling, eight-foot square at least, and from it
hang all manner of ropes, chains, and glinting shackles. By the door, two long, polished,
ornately carved poles, like spindles from a banister but longer, hang like curtain rods across
the wall. From them swing a startling assortment of paddles, whips, riding crops, and
funny-looking feathery implements.
Beside the door stands a substantial mahogany chest of drawers, each drawer slim as if
designed to contain specimens in a crusty old museum. I wonder briefly what the drawers
actually do hold. Do I want to know? In the far corner is an oxblood leather padded bench,
and fixed to the wall beside it is a wooden, polished rack that looks like a pool or billiard
cue holder, but on closer inspection, it holds canes of varying lengths and widths. There’s
a stout six-foot-long table in the opposite corner – polished wood with intricately carved
legs – and two matching stools underneath.But what dominates the room is a bed. It’s bigger than king-size, an ornately carved
rococo four-poster with a flat top. It looks late nineteenth century. Under the canopy, I can
see more gleaming chains and cuffs. There is no bedding... just a mattress covered in red
leather and red satin cushions piled at one end.
At the foot of the bed, set apart a few feet, is a large oxblood chesterfield couch, just
stuck in the middle of the room facing the bed. An odd arrangement... to have a couch
facing the bed, and I smile to myself – I’ve picked on the couch as odd, when really it’s the
most mundane piece of furniture in the room. I glance up and stare at the ceiling. There are
karabiners all over the ceiling at odd intervals. I vaguely wonder what they’re for. Weirdly,
all the wood, dark walls, moody lighting, and oxblood leather makes the room kind of soft
and romantic... I know it’s anything but, this is Christian’s version of soft and romantic.
I turn, and he’s regarding me intently as I knew he would be, his expression completely
unreadable. I walk further into the room, and he follows me. The feathery thing has me
intrigued. I touch it hesitantly. It’s suede, like a small cat-of-nine-tails but bushier, and
there are very small plastic beads on the end.
“It’s called a flogger,” Christian’s voice is quiet and soft.
A flogger... hmm. I think I’m in shock. My subconscious has emigrated or been struck
dumb or simply keeled over and expired. I am numb. I can observe and absorb but not ar-
ticulate my feelings about all this, because I’m in shock. What is the appropriate response
to finding out a potential lover is a complete freaky sadist or masochist? Fear... yes... that
seems to be the over-riding feeling. I recognize it now. But weirdly not of him – I don’t
think he’d hurt me, well, not without my consent. So many questions cloud my mind.
Why? How? When? How often? Who? I walk toward the bed and run my hands down
one of the intricately carved posts. The post is very sturdy, the craftsmanship outstanding.
“Say something,” Christian commands, his voice deceptively soft.
“Do you do this to people or do they do it to you?”
His mouth quirks up, either amused or relieved.
“People?” He blinks a couple of times as he considers his answer. “I do this to women
who want me to.”
I don’t understand.
“If you have willing volunteers, why am I here?”
“Because I want to do this with you, very much.”
“Oh,” I gasp. Why?
I wander to the far corner of the room and pat the waist high padded bench and run my
fingers over the leather. He likes to hurt women. The thought depresses me.
“You’re a sadist?”
“I’m a Dominant.” His eyes are a scorching gray, intense.
“What does that mean?” I whisper.
“It means I want you to willingly surrender yourself to me, in all things.”
I frown at him as I try to assimilate this idea.
“Why would I do that?”
“To please me,” he whispers as he cocks his head to one side, and I see a ghost of a
smile.Please him! He wants me to please him! I think my mouth drops open. Please Chris-
tian Grey. And I realize, in that moment, that yes, that’s exactly what I want to do. I want
him to be damned delighted with me. It’s a revelation.
“In very simple terms, I want you to want to please me,” he says softly. His voice is
hypnotic.
“How do I do that?” My mouth is dry, and I wish I had more wine. Okay, I understand
the pleasing bit, but I am puzzled by the soft-boudoir-Elizabethan-torture set up. Do I want
to know the answer?
“I have rules, and I want you to comply with them. They are for your benefit and for
my pleasure. If you follow these rules to my satisfaction, I shall reward you. If you don’t,
I shall punish you, and you will learn,” he whispers. I glance at the rack of canes as he
says this.
“And where does all this fit in?” I wave my hand in the general direction of the room.
“It’s all part of the incentive package. Both reward and punishment.”
“So you’ll get your kicks by exerting your will over me.”
“It’s about gaining your trust and your respect, so you’ll let me exert my will over you.
I will gain a great deal of pleasure, joy, even in your submission. The more you submit, the
greater my joy – it’s a very simple equation.”
“Okay, and what do I get out of this?”
He shrugs and looks almost apologetic.
“Me,” he says simply.
Oh my. Christian rakes his hand through his hair as he gazes at me.
“You’re not giving anything away, Anastasia,” he murmurs, exasperated. “Let’s go
back downstairs where I can concentrate better. It’s very distracting having you in here.”
He holds his hand out to me, and now I’m hesitant to take it.
Kate had said he was dangerous, she was so right. How did she know? He’s danger-
ous to my health, because I know I’m going to say yes. And part of me doesn’t want to.
Part of me wants to run screaming from this room and all it represents. I am so out of my
depth here.
“I’m not going to hurt you, Anastasia.” His gray eyes implore, and I know he speaks
the truth. I take his hand, and he leads me out of the door.
“If you do this, let me show you.” Rather than going back downstairs, he turns right
out of the playroom, as he calls it, and down a corridor. We pass several doors until we
reach the one at the end. Beyond it is a bedroom with a large double bed, all in white...
everything, furniture, walls, bedding. It’s sterile and cold but with the most glorious view
of Seattle through the glass wall.
“This will be your room. You can decorate it how you like, have whatever you like in
here.”
“My room? You’re expecting me to move in?” I can’t hide the horror in my voice.
“Not full time. Just say, Friday evening through Sunday. We have to talk about all that,
negotiate. If you want to do this,” he adds, his voice quiet and hesitant.
“I’ll sleep here?”
“Yes.”
“Not with you.”“No. I told you, I don’t sleep with anyone, except you, when you’re stupefied with
drink.” His eyes are reprimanding.
My mouth presses in a hard line. This is what I cannot reconcile. Kind, caring Chris-
tian, who rescues me from inebriation and holds me gently while I’m throwing up into the
azaleas, and the monster who possesses whips and chains in a special room.
“Where do you sleep?”
“My room is downstairs. Come, you must be hungry.”
“Weirdly, I seem to have lost my appetite,” I murmur petulantly.
“You must eat, Anastasia,” he admonishes and, taking my hand, leads me back down-
stairs.
Back in the impossibly big room, I am filled with deep trepidation. I am on the edge
of a precipice, and I have to decide whether or not to jump.
“I’m fully aware that this is a dark path I’m leading you down, Anastasia, which is
why I really want you to think about this. You must have some questions,” he says as he
wanders into the kitchen area, releasing my hand.
I do. But where to start?
“You’ve signed your NDA, you can ask me anything you want, and I’ll answer.”
I stand at the breakfast bar watching him as he opens the refrigerator and pulls out a
plate of different cheeses with two large bunches of green and red grapes. He sets the plate
down on the worktop and proceeds to cut up a French baguette.
“Sit.” He points to one of the bar stools at the breakfast bar, and I obey his command.
If I’m going to do this, I’m going to have to get used to it. I realize he’s been this bossy
since I met him.
“You mentioned paperwork.”
“Yes.”
“What paperwork?”
“Well, apart from the NDA, a contract saying what we will and won’t do. I need to
know your limits, and you need to know mine. This is consensual, Anastasia.”
“And if I don’t want to do this?”
“That’s fine,” he says carefully.
“But we won’t have any sort of relationship?” I ask.
“No.”
“Why?”
“This is the only sort of relationship I’m interesting in.”
“Why?”
He shrugs.
“It’s the way I am.”
“How did you become this way?”
“Why is anyone the way they are? That’s kind of hard to answer. Why do some people
like cheese and other people hate it? Do you like cheese? Mrs. Jones – my housekeeper
– has left this for supper.” He takes some large, white plates from a cupboard and places
one in front of me.
We’re talking about cheese... Holy crap.
“What are your rules that I have to follow?”“I have them written down. We’ll go through them once we’ve eaten.”
Food. How can I eat now?
“I’m really not hungry,” I whisper.
“You will eat,” he says simply. Dominating Christian, it all becomes clear. “Would
you like another glass of wine?”
“Yes, please.”
He pours wine into my glass and comes to sit beside me. I take a hasty sip.
“Help yourself to food, Anastasia.”
I take a small bunch of grapes. This I can manage. He narrows his eyes.
“Have you been like this for a while?” I ask.
“Yes.”
“Is it easy to find women who want to do this?”
He raises an eyebrow at me.
“You’d be amazed,” he says dryly.
“Then why me? I really don’t understand.”
“Anastasia, I’ve told you. There’s something about you. I can’t leave you alone.” He
smiles ironically. “I’m like a moth to a flame.” His voice darkens. “I want you very badly,
especially now, when you’re biting your lip again.” He takes a deep breath and swallows.
My stomach somersaults – he wants me... in a weird way, true, but this beautiful,
strange, kinky man wants me.
“I think you have that cliché the wrong way round.” I grumble. I am the moth and he
is the flame, and I’m going to get burnt. I know.
“Eat!”
“No. I haven’t signed anything yet, so I think I’ll hang on to my free will for a bit
longer, if that’s okay with you.”
His eyes soften, and his lips turn up in a smile.
“As you wish, Miss Steele.”
“How many women?” I blurt out the question, but I’m so curious.
“Fifteen.”
Oh... not as many as I thought.
“For long periods of time?”
“Some of them, yes.”
“Have you ever hurt anyone?”
“Yes.”
Holy shit.
“Badly?”
“No.”
“Will you hurt me?”
“What do you mean?”
“Physically, will you hurt me?”
“I will punish you when you require it, and it will be painful.”
I think I feel a little faint. I take another sip of wine. Alcohol - this will make me brave.
“Have you ever been beaten?” I ask.
“Yes.”Oh... that surprises me. Before I can question him on this revelation further, he inter-
rupts my train of thought.
“Let’s discuss this in my study. I want to show you something.”
This is so hard to process. Here I was foolishly thinking that I’d spend a night of un-
paralleled passion in this man’s bed, and we’re negotiating this weird arrangement.
I follow him into his study, a spacious room with another floor-to-ceiling window that
opens out on to the balcony. He sits on the desk, motions for me to sit on a leather chair in
front of him, and hands me a piece of paper.
“These are the rules. They may be subject to change. They form part of the contract,
which you can also have. Read these rules and let’s discuss.”
RULES
Obedience:
The Submissive will obey any instructions given by the Dominant immediately without
hesitation or reservation and in an expeditious manner. The Submissive will agree to any
sexual activity deemed fit and pleasurable by the Dominant excepting those activities which
are outlined in hard limits (Appendix 2). She will do so eagerly and without hesitation.
Sleep:
The Submissive will ensure she achieves a minimum of seven hours sleep a night when she
is not with the Dominant.
Food:
The Submissive will eat regularly to maintain her health and wellbeing from a prescribed
list of foods (Appendix 4). The Submissive will not snack between meals, with the excep-
tion of fruit.
Clothes:
During the Term, the Submissive will wear clothing only approved by the Dominant. The
Dominant will provide a clothing budget for the Submissive, which the Submissive shall
utilize. The Dominant shall accompany the Submissive to purchase clothing on an ad hoc
basis. If the Dominant so requires, the Submissive shall during the Term any adornments
the Dominant shall require, in the presence of the Dominant and any other time the Domi-
nant deems fit.
Exercise:
The Dominant shall provide the Submissive with a personal trainer four times a week in
hour-long sessions at times to be mutually agreed between the personal trainer and the Sub-
missive. The personal trainer will report to the Dominant on the Submissive’s progress.
Personal Hygiene/Beauty:The Submissive will keep herself clean and shaved and/or waxed at all times. The Sub-
missive will visit a beauty salon of the Dominant’s choosing at times to be decided by the
Dominant, and undergo whatever treatments the Dominant sees fit.
Personal Safety:
The Submissive will not drink to excess, smoke, take recreational drugs, or put herself in
any unnecessary danger.
Personal Qualities:
The Submissive will not enter into any sexual relations with anyone other than the Domi-
nant. The Submissive will conduct herself in a respectful and modest manner at all times.
She must recognize that her behavior is a direct reflection on the Dominant. She shall be
held accountable for any misdeeds, wrongdoings, and misbehavior committed when not in
the presence of the Dominant.
Failure to comply with any of the above will result in immediate punishment, the nature of
which shall be determined by the Dominant.
Holy fuck.
“Hard limits?” I ask.
“Yes. What you won’t do, what I won’t do, we need to specify in our agreement.”
“I’m not sure about accepting money for clothes. It feels wrong.” I shift uncomfort-
ably, the word ‘ho’ rattling round my head.
“I want to lavish money on you, let me buy you some clothes. I may need you to ac-
company me to functions, and I want you dressed well. I’m sure your salary, when you do
get a job, won’t cover the kind of clothes I’d like you to wear.”
“I don’t have to wear them when I’m not with you?”
“No.”
“Okay.” Think of them as uniform.
“I don’t want to exercise four times a week.”
“Anastasia, I need you supple, strong, and with stamina. Trust me, you need to exer-
cise.”
“But surely not four times a week, how about three?”
“I want you to do four.”
“I thought this was a negotiation?”
He purses his lips at me.
“Okay, Miss Steele, another point well made. How about an hour on three days and
one day half an hour?”
“Three days, three hours. I get the impression you’re going to keep me exercised when
I’m here.”
He smiles wickedly, and his eyes glow as if relieved. “Yes, I am. Okay, agreed. Are
you sure you don’t want to intern at my company? You’re a good negotiator.”“No, I don’t think that’s a good idea.” I stare down at his rules. Waxing! Waxing what?
Everything? Ugh.
“So, limits. These are mine.” He hands me another piece of paper.
Hard Limits
No acts involving fire play
No acts involving urination or defecation and the products thereof
No acts involving needles, knives, piercing, or blood
No acts involving gynecological medical instruments
No acts involving children or animals
No acts that will leave any permanent marks on the skin
No acts involving breath control
Ugh. He has to write these down! Of course – they all look very sensible, and frankly,
necessary... any sane person wouldn’t want to be involved in this sort of thing surely?
Though I now feel a little queasy.
“Is there anything you’d like to add?” he asks kindly.
Crap. I’ve no idea. I am completely stumped. He gazes at me and furrows his brow.
“Is there anything you won’t do?”
“I don’t know.”
“What do you mean you don’t know?”
I squirm uncomfortably and bite my lip.
“I’ve never done anything like this.”
“Well, when you’ve had sex, was there anything that you didn’t like doing?”
For the first time in what seems to be ages, I blush.
“You can tell me, Anastasia. We have to be honest with each other or this isn’t going
to work.”
I squirm uncomfortably again and stare at my knotted fingers.
“Tell me,” he commands.
“Well... I’ve not had sex before, so I don’t know.” My voice is small. I peek up at him,
and he’s staring at me, mouth-open, frozen, and pale - really pale.
“Never?” he whispers. I shake my head.
“You’re a virgin?” he breathes. I nod, flushing again. He closes his eyes and looks to
be counting to ten. When he opens them again, he’s angry, glaring at me.
“Why the fuck didn’t you tell me?” he growls.Christian is running both his hands through his hair and pacing up and down his study.
Two hands – that’s double exasperation. His usual concrete control seems to have slipped
a notch.
“I don’t understand why you didn’t tell me,” he castigates me.
“The subject never came up. I’m not in the habit of revealing my sexual status to ev-
eryone I meet. I mean, we hardly know each other.” I’m staring at my hands. Why am I
feeling guilty? Why is he so mad? I peek up at him.
“Well, you know a lot more about me now,” he snaps, his mouth presses into a hard
line. “I knew you were inexperienced, but a virgin!” He says it like it’s a really dirty word.
“Hell, Ana, I just showed you,” he groans. “May God forgive me. Have you ever been
kissed, apart from by me?”
“Of course I have.” I try my best to look affronted. Okay... maybe twice.
“And a nice young man hasn’t swept you off your feet? I just don’t understand. You’re
twenty-one, nearly twenty-two. You’re beautiful.” He runs his hand through his hair again.
Beautiful. I flush with pleasure. Christian Grey thinks I’m beautiful. I knot my fingers
together, staring at them hard, trying to conceal my goofy grin. Perhaps he’s near-sighted,
my subconscious has reared her somnambulant head. Where was she when I needed her?
“And you’re seriously discussing what I want to do, when you have no experience.”
His brows knit together. “How have you avoided sex? Tell me, please.”I shrug.
“No one’s really, you know.” Come up to scratch, only you. And you turn out to be
some kind of monster. “Why are you so angry with me?” I whisper.
“I’m not angry with you, I’m angry with myself. I just assumed... ” He sighs. He
regards me shrewdly and then shakes his head. “Do you want to go?” he asks, his voice
gentle.
“No, unless you want me to go,” I murmur. Oh no... I don’t want to leave.
“Of course not. I like having you here.” He frowns as he says this and then glances at
his watch. “It’s late.” And he turns to look at me. “You’re biting your lip.” His voice is
husky, and he’s eyeing me speculatively.
“Sorry.”
“Don’t apologize. It’s just that I want to bite it too, hard.”
I gasp... how can he say things like that to me and not expect me to be affected.
“Come,” he murmurs.”
“What?”
“We’re going to rectify the situation right now.”
“What do you mean? What situation?”
“Your situation. Ana, I’m going to make love to you, now.”
“Oh.” The floor has fallen away. I’m a situation. I’m holding my breath.
“That’s if you want to, I mean, I don’t want to push my luck.”
“I thought you didn’t make love. I thought you fucked hard.” I swallow, my mouth
suddenly dry.
He gives me a wicked grin, the effects of which travel all the way down there.
“I can make an exception, or maybe combine the two, we’ll see. I really want to make
love to you. Please, come to bed with me. I want our arrangement to work, but you re-
ally need to have some idea what you’re getting yourself into. We can start your training
tonight – with the basics. This doesn’t mean I’ve come over all hearts and flowers, it’s a
means to an end, but one that I want, and hopefully you do too.” His gray gaze is intense.
I flush... oh my... wishes do come true.
“But I haven’t done all the things you require from your list of rules.” My voice is all
breathy, hesitant.
“Forget about the rules. Forget about all those details for tonight. I want you. I’ve
wanted you since you fell into my office, and I know you want me. You wouldn’t be sitting
here calmly discussing punishment and hard limits if you didn’t. Please, Ana, spend the
night with me.” He holds his hand out to me, his eyes are bright, fervent... excited, and I
put my hand in his. He pulls me up and into his arms so I can feel the length of his body
against mine, this swift action taking me by surprise. He runs his fingers round the nape of
my neck, winds my ponytail around his wrist, and gently pulls so I’m forced to look up at
him. He gazes down at me.
“You are one brave young woman,” he whispers. “I am in awe of you.”
His words are like some kind of incendiary device; my blood flames. He leans down
and kisses my lips gently, and he sucks at my lower lip.
“I want to bite this lip,” he murmurs against my mouth, and carefully he tugs at it with
his teeth. I moan, and he smiles.“Please Ana, let me make love to you.”
“Yes,” I whisper, because that’s why I’m here. His smile is triumphant as he releases
me and takes my hand and leads me through the apartment.
His bedroom is vast. The ceiling height windows look out on a lit up, high-rise Seattle.
The walls are white, and the furnishings are pale blue. The enormous bed is ultra-modern,
made of rough, grey wood, like driftwood, four posts, but no canopy. On the wall above it
is a stunning painting of the sea.
I am quaking like a leaf. This is it. Finally, after all this time, I’m going to do it, with
none other than Christian Grey. My breath is shallow, and I can’t take my eyes off him.
He removes his watch and places it on top of a chest of drawers that matches the bed, and
removes his jacket, placing it on a chair. He’s dressed in his white linen shirt and jeans.
He is heart-stoppingly beautiful. His dark copper hair is a mess, his shirt hanging out – his
gray eyes bold and dazzling. He steps out of his Converse shoes and reaches down and
takes his socks off individually. Christian Grey’s feet... wow... what is it about naked
feet? Turning, he gazes at me, his expression soft.
“I assume you’re not on the pill.”
What! Shit.
“I didn’t think so.” He opens the top drawer of the chest and removes a packet of con-
doms. He gazes at me intently.
“Be prepared,” he murmurs. “Do you want the blinds drawn?”
“I don’t mind.” I whisper. “I thought you didn’t let anyone sleep in your bed.”
“Who says we’re going to sleep?” he murmurs softly.
“Oh.” Holy hell.
He strolls slowly toward me. Confident, sexy, eyes blazing, and my heart begins to
pound. My blood’s pumping around my body. Desire, thick and hot, pools in my belly. He
stands in front of me, staring down into my eyes. He’s so freaking hot.
“Let’s get this jacket off, shall we?” he says softly, and takes hold of the lapels and
gently slides my jacket off my shoulders. He places it on the chair.
“Do you have any idea how much I want you, Ana Steele?” he whispers. My breath
hitches. I cannot take my eyes off his. He reaches up and gently runs his fingers down my
cheek to my chin.
“Do you have any idea what I’m going to do to you?” he adds, caressing my chin.
The muscles inside the deepest, darkest part of me clench in the most delicious fashion.
The pain is so sweet and sharp I want to close my eyes, but I’m hypnotized by his gray eyes
staring fervently into mine. Leaning down, he kisses me. His lips are demanding, firm
and slow, molding mine. He starts unbuttoning my shirt while he places feather-like kisses
across my jaw, my chin, and the corners of my mouth. Slowly he peels it off me and lets it
fall to the floor. He stands back and gazes at me. I’m in the pale blue lacy perfect-fit bra.
Thank heavens.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes. “You have the most beautiful skin, pale and flawless. I want
to kiss every single inch of it.”
I flush. Oh my... Why did he say he couldn’t make love? I will do anything he wants.
He grasps my hair tie, pulls it free, and gasps as my hair cascades down around my shoul-
ders.“I like brunettes,” he murmurs, and both of his hands are in my hair, grasping each side
of my head. His kiss is demanding, his tongue and lips coaxing mine. I moan, and my
tongue tentatively meets his. He puts his arms around me and hauls me against his body,
squeezing me tightly. One hand remains in my hair, the other travels down my spine to
my waist and down to my behind. His hand flexes over my backside and squeezes gently.
He holds me against his hips, and I feel his erection, which he languidly pushes into me.
I moan once more into his mouth. I can hardly contain the riotous feelings or is it
hormones that rampage through my body. I want him so badly. Gripping his upper arms,
I feel his biceps, he’s surprisingly strong... muscular. Tentatively, I move my hands up
to his face and into his hair. Holy Moses. It’s so soft, unruly. I tug gently, and he groans.
He eases me toward the bed, until I feel it behind my knees. I think he’s going to push me
down on to it, but he doesn’t. Releasing me, he suddenly drops to his knees. He grabs my
hips with both his hands and runs his tongue around my navel, then gently nips his way to
my hipbone, then across my belly to my other hipbone.
“Ah,” I groan.
Seeing him on his knees in front of me, feeling his mouth on me, it’s so unexpected,,
and hot. My hands stay in his hair, pulling gently as I try to quiet my too-loud breathing.
He gazes up at me through impossibly long lashes, his eyes a scorching smoky gray. His
hands reach up and undo the button on my jeans, and he leisurely pulls down the zipper.
Without taking his eyes off mine, his hands move beneath the waistband, skimming me and
moving to my behind. His hands glide slowly down my backside to my thighs, removing
my jeans as they go. I cannot look away. He stops and licks his lips, never breaking eye
contact. He leans forward, running his nose up the apex between my thighs. I feel him.
There.
“You smell so good,” he murmurs and closes his eyes, a look of pure pleasure on his
face, and I practically convulse. He reaches up and tugs the duvet off the bed, then pushes
me gently so I fall on to the mattress.
Still kneeling, he grasps my foot and undoes my Converse, pulling off my shoe and
sock. I raise myself up on my elbows to see what he’s doing. I’m panting... wanting. He
lifts my foot by the heel and runs his thumbnail up my instep. It’s almost painful, but I feel
the movement echoed in my groin. I gasp. Not taking his eyes off mine, again he runs his
tongue along my instep and then his teeth. Shit. I groan... how can I feel this, there. I fall
back on to the bed, moaning. I hear his soft chuckle.
“Oh, Ana, what I could do to you,” he whispers. He removes my other shoe and sock,
then stands and removes my jeans. I’m lying on his bed dressed only in my bra and panties,
and he’s staring down at me.
“You’re very beautiful, Anastasia Steele. I can’t wait to be inside you.”
Holy shit. His words. He’s so seductive. He takes my breath away.
“Show me how you pleasure yourself.”
What? I frown.
“Don’t be coy, Ana, show me,” he whispers.
I shake my head.
“I don’t know what you mean.” My voice is hoarse. I hardly recognize it, laced with
desire.“How do you make yourself come? I want to see.”
I shake my head.
“I don’t,” I mumble. He raises his eyebrows, astonished for a moment, and his eyes
darken, and he shakes his head in disbelief.
“Well, we’ll have to see what we can do about that.” His voice is soft, challenging,
a delicious sensual threat. He undoes the buttons of his jeans and slowly pulls his jeans
down, his eyes on mine the whole time. He leans down over me and, grasping each of my
ankles, quickly jerks my legs apart and crawls onto the bed between my legs. He hovers
over me. I am squirming with need.
“Keep still,” he murmurs, and then he leans down and kisses the inside of my thigh,
trailing kisses up, over the thin lacy material of my panties, kissing me.
Oh... I can’t keep still. How can I not move? I wriggle beneath him.
“We’re going to have to work on keeping you still, baby.” He trails kisses up my belly,
and his tongue dips into my navel. Still he’s heading north, kissing me across my torso.
My skin is burning. I’m flushed, too hot, too cold, and I’m clawing at the sheet beneath
me. He lay down beside me, and his hand trails up from my hip, to my waist, and up to
my breast. He gazes down at me, his expression unreadable, and gently cups my breast.
“You fit my hand perfectly, Anastasia,” he murmurs and dips his index finger into the
cup of my bra and gently yanks it down freeing my breast, but the under wire and fabric of
the cup force it upward. His finger moves to my other breast and repeats the process. My
breasts swell, and my nipples harden under his steady gaze. I am trussed-up by my own
bra.
“Very nice,” he whispers appreciatively, and my nipples harden even more.
He blows very gently on one as his hand moves to my other breast, and his thumb
slowly rolls the end of my nipple, elongating it. I groan, feeling the sweet sensation all the
way to my groin. I am so wet. Oh please, I beg internally as my fingers clasp the sheet
tighter. His lips close around my other nipple and he tugs, I nearly convulse.
“Let’s see if we can make you come like this,” he whispers, continuing his slow, sen-
sual assault. My nipples bear the delicious brunt of his deft fingers and lips, setting alight
every single nerve ending in my body so that my whole body sings with the sweet agony.
He just doesn’t stop.
“Oh... please,” I beg, and I pull my head back, my mouth open as I groan, my legs
stiffening. Holy hell, what’s happening to me?
“Let go, baby,” he murmurs. His teeth close round my nipple, and his thumb and finger
pull hard, and I fall apart in his hands, my body convulsing and shattering into a thousand
pieces. He kisses me, deeply, his tongue in my mouth absorbing my cries.
Oh my. That was extraordinary. Now I know what all the fuss is about. He gazes
down at me, a satisfied smile on his face, while I’m sure there’s nothing but gratitude and
awe on mine.
“You are very responsive,” he breathes. “You’re going to have to learn to control that,
and it’s going to be so much fun teaching you how.” He kisses me again.
My breathing is still ragged as I come down from my orgasm. His hand moves down
my waist, to my hips, and then cups me, intimately... Jeez. His finger slips through the finelace and slowly circles around me – there. Briefly he closes his eyes, and his breathing
hitches.
“You’re so deliciously wet. God, I want you.” He thrusts his finger inside me, and I
cry out as he does it again and again. He palms my clitoris, and I cry out once more. He
pushes inside me harder and harder still. I groan.
Suddenly, he sits up and tugs my panties off and throws them on the floor. Pulling off
his boxer briefs, his erection springs free. Holy cow... He reaches over to his bedside table
and grabs a foil packet, and then he moves between my legs, spreading them further apart.
He kneels up and pulls a condom on to his considerable length. Oh no...Will it? How?
“Don’t worry,” he breathes, his eyes on mine, “You expand too.” He leans down, his
hands on either side of my head, so he’s hovering over me, staring down into my eyes, his
jaw clenched, eyes burning. It’s only now that I register he’s still wearing his shirt.
“You really want to do this?” he asks softly.
“Please,” I beg.
“Pull your knees up,” he orders softly, and I’m quick to obey. “I’m going to fuck you
now, Miss Steele,” he murmurs as he positions the head of his erection at the entrance of
my sex. “Hard,” he whispers, and he slams into me.
“Aargh!” I cry as I feel a weird pinching sensation deep inside me as he rips through
my virginity. He stills, gazing down at me, his eyes bright with ecstatic triumph.
His mouth is open slightly, and his breathing is harsh. He groans.
“You’re so tight. You okay?”
I nod, my eyes wide, my hands on his forearms. I feel so full. He stays still, letting me
acclimatize to the intrusive, overwhelming feeling of him inside me.
“I’m going to move, baby,” he breathes after a moment, his voice tight.
Oh.
He eases back with exquisite slowness. And he closes his eyes and groans, and thrusts
into me again. I cry out a second time, and he stills.
“More?” he whispers, his voice raw.
“Yes,” I breathe. He does it once more, and stills again.
I groan. My body accepting him... Oh, I want this.
“Again?” he breathes.
“Yes.” It’s a plea.
And he moves, but this time he doesn’t stop. He shifts onto his elbows so I can feel
his weight on me, holding me down. He moves slowly at first, easing himself in and out of
me. And as I grow accustomed to the alien feeling, my hips move tentatively to meet his.
He speeds up. I moan, and he pounds on, picking up speed, merciless, a relentless rhythm,
and I keep up, meeting his thrusts. He grasps my head between his hands and kisses me
hard, his teeth pulling at my lower lip again. He shifts slightly, and I can feel something
building deep inside me, like before. I start to stiffen as he thrusts on and on. My body
quivers, bows, a sheen of sweat gathers over me. Oh my... I didn’t know it would feel like
this... didn’t know it could feel as good as this. My thoughts are scattering... there’s only
sensation... only him... only me... oh please... I stiffen.“Come for me, Ana,” he whispers breathlessly, and I unravel at his words, exploding
around him as I climax and splinter into a million pieces underneath him. And as he comes,
he calls out my name, thrusting hard, then stilling as he empties himself into me.
I am still panting, trying to slow my breathing, my thumping heart, and my thoughts
are in riotous disarray. Wow... that was astounding. I open my eyes, and he has his fore-
head pressed against mine, his eyes closed, his breathing ragged. Christian’s eyes flicker
open and gaze down at me, dark but soft. He’s still inside me. Leaning down, he gently
presses a kiss against my forehead then slowly pulls out of me.
“Ooh.” I wince at the unfamiliarity.
“Did I hurt you?” Christian asks as he lies down beside me propped on one elbow. He
tucks a stray strand of my hair behind my ear. And I have to grin, widely.
“You are asking me if you hurt me?”
“The irony is not lost on me,” he smiles sardonically. “Seriously, are you okay?” His
eyes are intense, probing, demanding even.
I stretch out beside him, feeling loose-limbed, my bones like jelly, but I’m relaxed,
deeply relaxed. I grin at him. I can’t stop grinning. Now I know what all the fuss is about.
Two orgasms... coming apart at the seams, like the spin cycle on a washing machine, wow.
I had no idea what my body was capable of, could be wound so tightly and released so
violently, so gratifyingly. The pleasure was indescribable.
“You’re biting your lip, and you haven’t answered me.” He’s frowning. I grin up at
him impishly. He looks glorious with his tousled hair, burning narrowed gray eyes, and
serious, dark expression.
“I’d like to do that again,” I whisper. For a moment, I think I see a fleeting look of
relief on his face, before the shutters come down, and he gazes at me through hooded eyes.
“Would you now, Miss Steele?” he murmurs dryly. He leans down and kisses me very
gently at the corner of my mouth. “Demanding little thing aren’t you. Turn on your front.”
I blink at him momentarily, and then I turn over. He unhooks my bra and runs his hand
down my back to my behind.
“You really have the most beautiful skin,” he murmurs. He shifts so that one of his legs
pushes between mine, and he’s half lying across my back. I can feel the buttons of his shirt
pressing into me as he gathers my hair off my face and kisses my bare shoulder.
“Why are you wearing your shirt?” I ask. He stills. After a beat, he shuffles out of
his shirt, and he lies back down on me. I feel his warm skin against mine. Hmm... it feels
heavenly. He has a light dusting of hair across his chest, which tickles my back.
“So you want me to fuck you again?” he whispers in my ear, and he begins to trail
feather light kisses around my ear and down my neck.
His hand moves down, skimming my waist, over my hip, and down my thigh to the
back of my knee. He pushes my knee up higher, and my breath hitches... oh my, what’s
he doing now? He shifts so he’s between my legs, pressed against my back, and his hand
travels up my thigh to my behind. He caresses my cheek slowly, and then trails his fingers
down between my legs.
“I’m going to take you from behind, Anastasia,” he murmurs, and with his other hand,
he grasps my hair at the nape in a fist and pulls gently, holding me in place. I cannot move
my head. I am pinioned beneath him, helpless.“You are mine,” he whispers. “Only mine. Don’t forget it.” His voice is intoxicating,
his words heady, seductive. I feel his growing erection against my thigh.
His long fingers reach round to gently massage my clitoris, circling slowly. His breath
is soft against my face as he slowly nips me along my jaw.
“You smell divine,” he nuzzles behind my ear. His hand rubs against me, round and
round. Reflexively, my hips start to circle, mirroring his hand, as excruciating pleasure
spikes through my blood like adrenaline.
“Keep still,” he orders, his voice soft but urgent, and slowly he inserts his thumb inside
me, rotating it round and round, stroking the front wall of my vagina. The effect is mind-
blowing – all my energy concentrating on this one small space inside my body. I moan.
“You like this?” he asks softly, his teeth grazing my outer ear, and he starts to flex his
thumb slowly, in, out, in, out... his fingers still circling.
I close my eyes, trying to keep my breathing under control, trying to absorb the disor-
dered, chaotic sensations that his fingers are unleashing on me, fire coursing through my
body. I moan again.
“You’re so wet, so quickly. So responsive. Oh, Anastasia, I like that. I like that a lot,”
he whispers.
I want to stiffen my legs, but I can’t move. He’s pinning me down, keeping up a
constant, slow, tortuous rhythm. It’s absolutely exquisite. I moan again, and he moves
suddenly.
“Open your mouth,” he commands and thrusts his thumb in my mouth. My eyes fly
open, blinking wildly.
“See how you taste,” he breathes against my ear. “Suck me, baby.” His thumb presses
on my tongue, and my mouth closes round him, sucking wildly. I taste the saltiness on his
thumb and the faint metallic tang of blood. Holy fuck. This is wrong, but holy hell is it
erotic.
“I want to fuck your mouth, Anastasia, and I will soon,” his voice is hoarse, raw, his
breathing more disjointed.
Fuck my mouth! I moan, and I bite down on him. He gasps, and he pulls my hair
tighter, painfully, so I release him.
“Naughty, sweet girl,” he whispers, and then reaches over to the bedside table for a foil
packet. “Stay still, don’t move,” he orders as he releases my hair.
He rips the foil while I’m breathing hard, my blood singing in my veins. The anticipa-
tion is exhilarating. He leans down, his weight on me again, and he grabs my hair holding
my head immobile. I cannot move. I’m enticingly ensnared by him, and he’s poised and
ready to take me once more.
“We’re going to go real, slow this time, Anastasia,” he breathes.
And slowly he eases into me, slowly, slowly, until he’s buried in me. Stretching, fill-
ing, relentless. I groan loudly. It feels deeper this time, delectable. I groan again, and he
deliberately circles his hips and pulls back, pauses a beat, and then eases his way back in.
He repeats this motion again and again. It’s driving me insane – his teasing, deliberately
slow thrusts, and the intermittent feeling of fullness is overwhelming.“You feel so good,” he groans, and my insides start to quiver. He pulls back and waits.
“Oh no, baby, not yet,” he murmurs, and as the quivering ceases, he starts the whole deli-
cious process again.
“Oh, please,” I beg. I’m not sure I can take much more. My body is wound so tight,
craving release.
“I want you sore, baby,” he murmurs, and he continues his sweet, leisurely torment,
backward, forward.
“Every time you move tomorrow, I want you to be reminded that I’ve been here. Only
me. You are mine.”
I groan.
“Please, Christian,” I whisper.
“What do you want, Anastasia? Tell me.”
I groan again. He pulls out and moves slowly back into me, circling his hips once
more.
“Tell me,” he murmurs.
“You, please.”
He increases the rhythm infinitesimally, and his breathing becomes more erratic. My
insides start quickening, and Christian picks up the rhythm.
“You. Are. So. Sweet,” he murmurs between each thrust. “I. Want. You. So. Much.”
I moan.
“You. Are. Mine. Come for me, baby,” he growls.
His words are my undoing, tipping me over the precipice. My body convulses around
him, and I come, loudly calling out a garbled version of his name into the mattress, and
Christian follows with two sharp thrusts, and he freezes, pouring himself into me as he
finds his release. He collapses on top of me, his face in my hair.
“Fuck. Ana,” he breathes. He pulls out of me immediately and rolls onto his side of
the bed. I pull my knees up to my chest, utterly spent, and immediately drift off or pass out
into an exhausted sleep.
When I wake, it’s still dark. I have no idea how long I’ve slept. I stretch out beneath the
duvet, and I feel sore, deliciously sore. Christian is nowhere to be seen. I sit up, staring
out at the cityscape in front of me. There are fewer lights on amongst the skyscrapers, and
there’s a whisper of dawn in the east. I hear the music. The lilting notes of the piano, a sad,
sweet lament. Bach, I think, but I’m not sure.
I wrap the duvet round me and quietly pad down the corridor toward the big room.
Christian is at the piano, completely lost in the music he’s playing. His expression is sad
and forlorn, like the music. His playing is stunning. Leaning against the wall at the en-
trance, I listen enraptured. He’s such an accomplished musician. He sits naked, his body
bathed in the warm light cast by a solitary freestanding lamp beside the piano. With the rest
of the large room in darkness, it’s like he’s in his own isolated little pool of light, untouch-
able... lonely, in a bubble.
I pad quietly toward him, enticed by the sublime, melancholy music. I’m mesmer-
ized watching his long skilled fingers as they find and gently press the keys, thinking howthose same fingers have expertly handled and caressed my body. I flush and gasp at the
memory and press my thighs together. He glances up, his unfathomable gray eyes bright,
his expression unreadable.
“Sorry,” I whisper. “I didn’t mean to disturb you.”
A frown flits across his face.
“Surely, I should be saying that to you,” he murmurs. He finishes playing and puts his
hands on his legs.
I notice now that he’s wearing PJ pants. He runs his fingers through his hair and stands.
His pants hang from his hips, in that way... oh my. My mouth goes dry as he casually
strolls around the piano toward me. He has broad shoulders, narrow hips, and his abdomi-
nal muscles ripple as he walks. He really is stunning.
“You should be in bed,” he admonishes.
“That was a beautiful piece. Bach?”
“Transcription by Bach, but it’s originally an oboe concerto by Alessandro Marcello.”
“It was exquisite, but very sad, such a melancholy melody.”
His lips quirk up in a half smile.
“Bed,” he orders. “You’ll be exhausted in the morning.”
“I woke and you weren’t there.”
“I find it difficult to sleep, and I’m not used to sleeping with anyone,” he murmurs. I
can’t fathom his mood. He seems a little despondent, but it’s difficult to tell in the dark-
ness. Perhaps it was the tone of the piece he was playing. He puts his arm around me and
gently walks me back to the bedroom.
“How long have you been playing? You play beautifully.”
“Since I was six.”
“Oh.” Christian as a six-year-old boy... my mind conjures an image of a beautiful,
copper-haired little boy with gray eyes and my heart melts – a moppet-haired kid who likes
impossibly sad music.
“How are you feeling?” he asks when we are back in the room. He switches on a
sidelight.
“I’m good.”
We both glance down at the bed at the same time. There’s blood on the sheets – evi-
dence of my lost virginity. I flush, embarrassed, pulling the duvet tighter around me.
“Well, that’s going to give Mrs. Jones something to think about,” Christian mutters as
he stands in front of me. He puts his hand under my chin and tips my head back, staring
down at me. His eyes are intense as he examines my face. I realize that I’ve not seen his
naked chest before. Instinctively, I reach out to run my fingers through the smattering of
dark hair on his chest to see how it feels. Immediately, he steps back out of my reach.
“Get into bed,” he says sharply. “I’ll come and lie down with you.” His voice softens.
I drop my hand and frown. I don’t think I’ve ever touched his torso. He opens a chest of
drawers and pulls out a t-shirt and quickly slips it on.
“Bed,” he orders again. I climb back onto the bed, trying not to think about the blood.
He clambers in beside me and pulls me into his embrace, wrapping his arms around me so
that I’m facing away from him. He kisses my hair gently, and he inhales deeply.“Sleep, sweet Anastasia,” he murmurs, and I close my eyes, but I can’t help feel a re-
sidual melancholy either from the music or his demeanor. Christian Grey has a sad side.Light fills the room, coaxing me from deep sleep to wakefulness. I stretch out and open
my eyes. It’s a beautiful May morning, Seattle at my feet. Wow, what a view. Beside
me, Christian Grey is fast asleep. Wow, what a view. I’m surprised he’s still in bed. He’s
facing me, and I have an unprecedented opportunity to study him. His lovely face looks
younger, relaxed in sleep. His sculptured, pouty lips are parted slightly, and his shiny,
clean hair is a glorious mess. How could anyone look this good and still be legal? I re-
member his room upstairs... perhaps he’s not legal. I shake my head, so much to think
about. It’s tempting to reach out and touch him, but like a small child, he’s so lovely when
he’s asleep. I don’t have to worry about what I’m saying, what he’s saying, what plans he
has, especially his plans for me.
I could gaze at him all day, but I have needs – bathroom needs. Slipping out of bed, I
find his white shirt on the floor and shrug it on. I walk through a door thinking that it might
be the bathroom, but I’m in a vast walk-in closet as big as my bedroom. Lines and lines
of expensive suits, shirts, shoes, and ties. How can anyone need this many clothes? I tut
with disapproval. Actually, Kate’s wardrobe probably rivals this. Kate! Oh no. I didn’t
think about her all evening. I was supposed to text her. Crap. I’m going to be in trouble. I
wonder briefly how she’s getting on with Elliot.
Returning to the bedroom, Christian is still asleep. I try the other door. It’s the bath-
room, and it’s bigger than my bedroom. Why does one man need so much space? Twosinks, I notice with irony. Given he doesn’t sleep with anyone, one of them can’t have
been used.
I stare at myself in the gigantic mirror above the sinks. Do I look different? I feel dif-
ferent. I feel a little sore, if I’m honest, and my muscles - jeez it’s like I’ve never done any
exercise in my life. You don’t do any exercise in your life, my subconscious has woken.
She’s staring at me with pursed lips, tapping her foot. So you’ve just slept with him, given
him your virginity, a man who doesn’t love you. In fact, he has very odd ideas about you,
wants to make you some sort of kinky sex slave.
ARE YOU CRAZY? She’s shouting at me.
I wince as I look in the mirror. I am going to have to process all this. Honestly, fancy
falling for a man who’s beyond beautiful, richer than Croesus, and has a Red Room of Pain
waiting for me. I shudder. I’m bewildered and confused. My hair is its usual wayward
self. Just-fucked hair doesn’t suit me. I try and bring order to the chaos with my fingers
but fail miserably and give up – maybe I’ll find hair ties in my purse.
I’m starving. I head back out to the bedroom. Sleeping beauty is still sleeping, so I
leave him and head for the kitchen.
Oh no... Kate. I left my purse in Christian’s study. I fetch it and reach for my cell
phone. Three texts.
*RU OK Ana*
*Where RU Ana*
*Damn it Ana*
I call Kate. When she doesn’t answer, I leave her a groveling message to tell her I am
alive and have not succumbed to Bluebeard, well not in the sense she would be worried
about – or perhaps I have. Oh this is so confusing. I have to try and categorize and analyze
my feelings for Christian Grey. It’s an impossible task. I shake my head in defeat. I need
alone time, away from here to think.
I find two welcome hair ties at the same time in my bag and quickly tie my hair in pig-
tails. Yes! The more girly I look, perhaps the safer I’ll be from Bluebeard. I take my iPod
out of the bag and plug my headphones in. There’s nothing like music to cook by. I slip it
into the breast pocket of Christian’s shirt, turn it up loud, and start dancing.
Holy hell, I’m hungry.
I am daunted by his kitchen. It’s so sleek and modern and none of the cupboards have
handles. It takes me a few seconds to deduce that I have to push the cupboard doors to
open them. Perhaps I should cook Christian breakfast. He was eating an omelet the other
day... um, yesterday at the Heathman. Jeez, so much has happened since then. I check
in the fridge, where there are plenty of eggs, and decide I want pancakes and bacon. I set
about making some batter, dancing my way round the kitchen.
Being busy is good. It allows a bit of time to think but not too deeply. Music blaring
in my ears also helps to stave off deep thought. I came here to spend the night in Christian
Grey’s bed, and managed it, even though he doesn’t let anyone in his bed. I smile, mission
accomplished. Big time. I grin. Big, big time, and I’m distracted by the memory of last
night. His words, his body, his lovemaking... I close my eyes as my body hums at the rec-ollection, and my muscles contract deliciously deep in my belly. My subconscious scowls
at me... fucking – not lovemaking – she screams at me like a harpy. I ignore her, but deep
down I know she has a point. I shake my head to concentrate on the task at hand.
There is a state-of-the-art range. I think I have the hang of it. I need somewhere to
keep the pancakes warm, and I start on the bacon. Amy Studt is singing in my ear about
misfits. This song used to mean so much to me, that’s because I’m a misfit. I have never
fitted in anywhere and now... I have an indecent proposal to consider from King Misfit
himself. Why is he this way? Nature or Nurture? It’s so alien to anything I know.
I put the bacon under the grill, and while it’s cooking, I whisk some eggs. I turn, and
Christian is sitting on one of the bar stools at the breakfast bar, leaning on it, his face sup-
ported by his steepled hands. He’s still wearing the t-shirt he’s slept in. Just-fucked hair re-
ally, really suits him, as does his designer stubble. He looks both amused and bewildered.
I freeze, flush, then gather myself and pull the headphones out of my ears, my knees weak
at the sight of him.
“Good morning, Miss Steele. You’re very energetic this morning,” he says dryly.
“I slept well,” I stutter my explanation. His lips try to mask his smile.
“I can’t imagine why.” He pauses and frowns. “So did I, after I came back to bed.”
“Are you hungry?”
“Very,” he says with an intense look, and I don’t think he’s referring to food.
“Pancakes, bacon, and eggs?”
“Sounds great.”
“I don’t know where you keep your placemats.” I shrug, trying desperately hard not to
look flustered.
“I’ll do that. You cook. Would you like me to put some music on so you can continue
your... err... dancing?”
I stare down at my fingers, knowing that I am turning puce.
“Please, don’t stop on my account. It’s very entertaining.” His tone is one of wry
amusement.
I purse my lips. Entertaining eh? My subconscious has doubled over in laughter at me.
I turn and continue to whisk the eggs, probably beating them a little harder than they need.
In a moment, he’s beside me. He gently pulls my pigtail.
“I love these,” he whispers. “They won’t protect you.” Hmm Bluebeard...
“How would you like your eggs?” I ask tartly. He smiles.
“Thoroughly whisked and beaten,” he smirks.
I turn back to the task at hand, trying to hide my smile. He’s hard to stay mad at. Es-
pecially when he’s being so uncharacteristically playful. He opens a drawer and takes out
two black slate placemats for the breakfast bar. I pour the egg mix into a pan, pull out the
bacon and turn it over, and put it back under the grill.
When I turn back round, there is orange juice on the table, and he’s making coffee.
“Would you like some tea?”
“Yes, please. If you have some.”
I find a couple of plates and place them in the warming tray of the range. Christian
reaches into a cupboard and pulls out some Twining’s English Breakfast tea. I purse my
lips.“Bit of a foregone conclusion wasn’t I?”
“Are you? I’m not sure we’ve concluded anything yet, Miss Steele,” he murmurs.
What does he mean by that? Our negotiations? Our, err... relationship... whatever that
is? He’s still so cryptic. I serve up the breakfast onto the heated plates and lay them on the
placemats. I hunt in the refrigerator and find some maple syrup.
I glance up at Christian, and he’s waiting for me to sit down.
“Miss Steele.” He motions to one of the bar stools.
“Mr. Grey.” I nod in acknowledgement. I climb up and wince slightly as I sit down.
“Just how sore are you?” he asks as he sits down. His gray eyes dark.
I flush. Why does he ask such personal questions?
“Well, to be truthful, I have nothing to compare this to,” I snap at him. “Did you wish
to offer your commiserations?” I ask too sweetly. I think he’s trying to stifle a smile, but
I can’t be sure.
“No. I wondered if we should continue your basic training.”
“Oh.” I stare at him dumbfounded as I stop breathing and everything inside me clench-
es tight. Ooh... that’s so nice. I suppress my groan.
“Eat, Anastasia.” My appetite has become uncertain again... more... more sex... yes
please.
“This is delicious, incidentally.” He grins at me.
I try a forkful of omelet but can barely taste it. Basic training! I want to fuck your
mouth. Does that form part of basic training?
“Stop biting your lip. It’s very distracting, and I happen to know you’re not wearing
anything under my shirt which makes it even more distracting,” he growls.
I dunk my teabag in the small pot that Christian has provided. My mind is in a whirl.
“What sort of basic training did you have in mind?” I ask, my voice slightly too high,
betraying my wish to sound as natural, disinterested, and calm as I can with my hormones
wreaking havoc through my body.
“Well, as you’re sore, I thought we could stick to oral skills.”
I choke on my tea, and I stare at him, eyes wide and gaping. He pats me gently on the
back and passes me some orange juice. I cannot tell what he’s thinking.
“That’s if you want to stay,” he adds. I glance up at him, trying to recover my equilib-
rium. His expression is unreadable. It’s so frustrating.
“I’d like to stay for today. If that’s okay. I have to work tomorrow.”
“What time do you have to be at work tomorrow?”
“Nine.”
“I’ll get you to work by nine tomorrow.”
I frown. Does he want me to stay another night?
“I’ll need to go home tonight – I need clean clothes.”
“We can get you some here.”
I don’t have spare cash to spend on clothes. His hand comes up, and he grasps my
chin, tugging it so my lip is released from the grip of my teeth. I’m not even aware I’ve
been biting my lip.
“What is it?” he asks.
“I need to be home this evening.”His mouth is a hard line.
“Okay, this evening,” he acquiesces. “Now eat your breakfast.”
My thoughts and my stomach are in turmoil. My appetite has vanished. I stare at my
half-eaten breakfast. I’m just not hungry.
“Eat, Anastasia. You didn’t eat last night.”
“I’m really not hungry,” I whisper.
His eyes narrow.
“I would really like you to finish your breakfast.”
“What is it with you and food?” I blurt. His brow knits.
“I told you, I have issues with wasted food. Eat,” he snaps. His eyes are dark, pained.
Holy Crap. What is that all about? I pick up my fork and eat slowly, trying to chew.
I must remember not to put so much on my plate if he’s going to be weird about food. His
expression softens as I carefully make my way through my breakfast. I note that he cleans
his plate. He waits for me to finish, and then he clears my plate.
“You cooked, I’ll clear.”
“That’s very democratic.”
“Yes.” He frowns. “Not my usual style. After I’ve done this, we’ll take a bath.”
“Oh, okay.” Oh my... I’d much rather have a shower. My cell rings, interrupting my
reverie. It’s Kate.
“Hi.” I wander over to the glass doors of the balcony, away from him.
“Ana, why didn’t you text last night?” She’s angry.
“I’m sorry, I was overtaken by events.”
“You’re okay?”
“Yes, I’m fine.”
“Did you?” She’s fishing for information. I roll my eyes at the expectation in her voice.
“Kate, I don’t want to talk over the phone.” Christian glances up at me.
“You did... I can tell.”
How can she tell? She’s bluffing, and I can’t talk about this. I’ve signed a damned
agreement.
“Kate, please.”
“What was it like? Are you okay?”
“I’ve told you I’m okay.”
“Was he gentle?”
“Kate, please!” I can’t hide my exasperation.
“Ana, don’t hold out on me, I’ve been waiting for this day for nearly four years.”
“I’ll see you this evening.” I hang up.
That is going to be one difficult square to circle. She’s so tenacious, and she wants
to know – in detail, and I can’t tell her because I’ve signed a – what was it called? NDA.
She’ll freak and rightly so. I need a plan. I head back to watch Christian move gracefully
around his kitchen.
“The NDA, does it cover everything?” I ask tentatively.
“Why?” he turns and gazes at me while putting the Twinings away. I flush.
“Well, I have a few questions, you know, about sex.” I stare down at my fingers. “And
I’d like to ask Kate.”“You can ask me.”
“Christian, with all due respect.” My voice fades. I can’t ask you. I’ll get your biased,
kinky-as-hell, distorted world-view regarding sex. I want an impartial opinion. “It’s just
about mechanics. I won’t mention the Red Room of Pain.”
He raises his eyebrows.
“Red Room of Pain? It’s mostly about pleasure, Anastasia. Believe me,” he says.
“Besides,” his tone is harsher. “Your room-mate is making the beast with two backs with
my brother. I’d really rather you didn’t.”
“Does your family know about your... um predilection?”
“No. It’s none of their business.” He saunters toward me until he’s standing in front
of me.
“What do you want to know?” he asks, and raising his hand runs his fingers gently
down my cheek to my chin, tilting my head back so he can look directly into my eyes. I
squirm inwardly. I cannot lie to this man.
“Nothing specific at the moment,” I whisper.
“Well, we can start with – how was last night for you?” His eyes burn, filled with curi-
osity. He’s anxious to know. Wow.
“Good,” I murmur.
His lips lift slightly.
“Me too,” he murmurs. “I’ve never had vanilla sex before. There’s a lot to be said
for it. But then, maybe it’s because it’s with you.” He runs his thumb across my lower lip.
I inhale sharply. Vanilla sex?
“Come, let’s have a bath.” He leans down and kisses me. My heart leaps and desire
pools way down low... way down there.
The bath is a white stone, deep, egg-shaped affair, very designer. Christian leans over and
fills it from the faucet on the tiled wall. He pours some expensive looking bath oil into the
water. It foams as the bath fills and smells of sweet sultry Jasmine. He stands and gazes at
me, his eyes dark, then peels his t-shirt off and casts it on the floor.
“Miss Steele.” He holds his hand out.
I’m standing in the doorway, wide-eyed and wary, my arms wrapped around myself. I
step forward while surreptitiously admiring his physique. He is just yummy. My subcon-
scious swoons and passes out somewhere in the back of my head. I take his hand, and he
bids me to step into the bath while I am still wearing his shirt. I do as I’m told. I’ll have to
get used to it if I’m going to take him up on his outrageous offer... if! The water is entic-
ingly hot.
“Turn around, face me,” he orders, his voice soft. I do as I’m bid. He’s watching me
intently.
“I know that lip is delicious, I can attest to that, but will you stop biting it?” he says
through clenched teeth. “You chewing it makes me want to fuck you, and you’re sore,
okay?”
I gasp, automatically unlocking my lip, shocked.“Yeah,” he challenges. “Got the picture.” He glares at me. I nod frantically. I had no
idea I could affect him so.
“Good.” He reaches forward and takes my iPod out of the breast pocket, and he puts
it by the sink.
“Water and iPods – not a clever combination,” he mutters. He reaches down, grasps
the hem of my white shirt, lifts it above my head, and discards it on the floor.
He stands back to gaze at me. I’m naked for heaven’s sake. I flush crimson and stare
down at my hands, level with the base of my belly, and I desperately want to disappear into
the hot water and foam, but I know he won’t want that.
“Hey,” he summons me. I peek up at him, and his head is cocked to one side. “Anasta-
sia, you’re a very beautiful woman, the whole package. Don’t hang your head like you’re
ashamed. You have nothing to be ashamed of, and it’s a real joy to stand here and gaze at
you.” He takes my chin in his hand and tilts my head up to reach his eyes. They are soft
and warm, heated even. Oh my. He’s so close. I could just reach up and touch him.
“You can sit down now.” He halts my scattered thoughts, and I scoot down into the
warm, welcoming water. Ooh... it stings. Which takes me by surprise, but it smells heav-
enly too, and the initial smarting pain soon ebbs away. I lie back and briefly close my eyes,
relaxing in the soothing warmth. When I open them, he is gazing down at me.
“Why don’t you join me?” I ask, bravely I think – my voice husky.
“I think I will. Move forward,” he orders.
He strips out of his PJ pants and climbs in behind me. The water rises as he sits and
pulls me against his chest. He places his long legs over mine, his knees bent and his ankles
level with mine, and he pulls his feet apart, opening my legs. I gasp in surprise. His nose
is in my hair and he inhales deeply.
“You smell so good, Anastasia.”
A tremor runs through my whole body. I am naked, in a bath with Christian Grey.
He’s naked. If someone had told me I’d be doing this when I woke up in his hotel suite
yesterday, I would not have believed them.
He reaches for a bottle of body wash from the built-in shelf beside the bath and squirts
some into his hand. He rubs his hands together, creating a soft, foaming lather, and he
closes his hands around my neck and starts to rub the soap into my neck and shoulders,
massaging firmly with his long, strong fingers. I groan. His hands on me feel good.
“You like that?” I hear his smile.
“Hmm.”
He moves down my arms, then under them to my underarms washing gently. I’m so
glad Kate insisted I shave. His hands glide across to my breasts, and I inhale sharply as
his fingers encircle them and start kneading gently, taking no prisoners. My body bows
instinctively, pushing my breasts into his hands. My nipples are tender. Very tender, no
doubt from his less-than-delicate treatment of them last night. He doesn’t linger long and
glides his hands down to my stomach and belly. My breathing increases, and my heart is
racing. His growing erection presses against my behind. It’s such a turn-on knowing that
it’s my body making him feel this way. Ha... not your mind. My subconscious sneers. I
shake off the unwelcome thought.He stops and reaches for a washcloth as I pant against him, wanting... needing. My
hands rest on his firm, muscular thighs. Squirting more soap on to the washcloth, he leans
down and washes between my legs. I hold my breath. His fingers skillfully stimulating
me through the cloth, it’s heavenly, and my hips start moving at their own rhythm, pushing
against his hand. As the sensations take over, I tilt my head back, my eyes rolling to the
back of my head, my mouth slack, and I groan. The pressure is building slowly, inexorably
inside me ... oh my.
“Feel it, baby,” Christian whispers in my ear and very gently grazes my earlobe with
his teeth. “Feel it for me.” My legs are pinioned by his to the side of the bath, holding me
prisoner, giving him easy access to this most private part of myself.
“Oh... please,” I whisper. I try to stiffen my legs as my body goes rigid. I am in a
sexual thrall to this man, and he doesn’t let me move.
“I think you’re clean enough now,” he murmurs, and he stops. What! No! No! No!
My breathing is ragged.
“Why are you stopping?” I gasp.
“Because I have other plans for you Anastasia.”
What... oh my... but... I was... that’s not fair.
“Turn around. I need washing, too,” he murmurs.
Oh! Turning to face him, I’m shocked to find he has his erection firmly in his grasp.
My mouth drops open.
“I want you to become well acquainted, on first name terms if you will, with my favor-
ite and most cherished part of my body. I’m very attached to this.”
It’s so big and growing. His erection is above the water line, the water lapping at his
hips. I glance up at him and come face to face with his wicked grin. He’s enjoying my
astounded expression. I realize that I’m staring. I swallow. That was inside me! It doesn’t
seem possible. He wants me to touch him. Hmm... okay, bring it on.
I smile at him and reach for the body wash, squirting some soap onto my hand. I do as
he’s done, lathering the soap in my hands until they are foamy. I do not take my eyes off
his. My lips are parted to accommodate my breathing... very deliberately I gently bite my
bottom lip and then run my tongue across it, tracing where my teeth have been. His eyes
are serious and dark, and they widen as my tongue skims my lower lip. I reach forward
and place one of my hands around him, mirroring how he’s holding himself. His eyes close
briefly. Wow... feels much firmer than I expect. I squeeze, and he places his hand over
mine.
“Like this,” he whispers, and he moves his hand up and down with a firm grip round
my fingers, and my fingers tighten around him. He closes his eyes again, and his breath
hitches in his throat. When he opens them again, his gaze is scorching molten gray. “That’s
right, baby.”
He releases my hand, leaving me to continue alone, and closes his eyes as I move
up and down his length. He flexes his hips slightly into my hand and reflexively I grasp
him tighter. A low groan escapes from deep within his throat. Fuck my mouth... hmm. I
remember him pushing his thumb in my mouth and asking me to suck, hard. His mouth
drops open slightly as his breathing increases. I lean forward, while he has his eyes closed,
and place my lips around him and tentatively suck, running my tongue over the tip.“Whoa... Ana.” His eyes fly open, and I suck harder.
Hmm... he’s soft and hard at once, like steel encased in velvet, and surprisingly tasty
– salty and smooth.
“Christ,” he groans, and he closes his eyes again.
Moving down, I push him into my mouth. He groans again. Ha! My inner goddess
is thrilled. I can do this. I can fuck him with my mouth. I twirl my tongue around the tip
again, and he flexes his hips. His eyes are open now, blistering with heat. His teeth are
clenched as he flexes again, and I push him deeper into my mouth, supporting myself on
his thighs. I feel his legs tense beneath my hands. He reaches up and grabs my pigtails
and starts to really move.
“Oh... baby... that feels good,” he murmurs. I suck harder, flicking my tongue across
the head of his impressive erection. Wrapping my teeth behind my lips, I clamp my mouth
around him. His breath hisses between his teeth, and he groans.
“Jesus. How far can you go?” he whispers.
Hmm... I pull him deeper into my mouth so I can feel him at the back of my throat and
then to the front again. My tongue swirls around the end. He’s my very own Christian
Grey flavor popsicle. I suck harder and harder, pushing him deeper and deeper, swirling
my tongue round and round. Hmm... I had no idea giving pleasure could be such a turn-on,
watching him writhe subtly with carnal longing. My inner goddess is doing the merengue
with some salsa moves.
“Anastasia, I’m going to come in your mouth,” his breathy tone is warning. “If you
don’t want me to, stop now.” He flexes his hips again, his eyes are wide, wary, and filled
with salacious need – need for me. Need for my mouth... oh my.
Holy crap. His hands are really gripping my hair. I can do this. I push even harder
and, in a moment of extraordinary confidence, I bare my teeth. It tips him over the edge.
He cries out and stills, and I can feel warm, salty liquid oozing down my throat. I swallow
quickly. Ugh... I’m not sure about this. But one look at him, and he’s come apart in the
bath because of me, and I don’t care. I sit back and watch him, a triumphant, gloating smile
tugging at the corners of my lips. His breathing is ragged. Opening his eyes, he glares at
me.
“Don’t you have a gag reflex?” he asks, astonished. “Christ, Ana... that was... good,
really good, unexpected though.” He frowns. “You know, you never cease to amaze me.”
I smile and consciously bite my lip. He eyes me speculatively.
“Have you done that before?”
“No.” And I can’t help the small tinge of pride in my denial.
“Good,” he says complacently and, I think, relieved. “Yet another first, Miss Steele.”
He looks appraisingly at me. “Well, you get an A in oral skills. Come, let’s go to bed, I
owe you an orgasm.”
Orgasm! Another one!
Quickly, he clambers out of the bath, giving me my first full glimpse of the Adonis, di-
vinely formed, that is Christian Grey. My inner goddess has stopped dancing and is staring
too, mouth open and drooling slightly. His erection tamed, but still substantial... wow. He
wraps a small towel around his waist, covering the essentials, and holds out a larger fluffy
white towel for me. Climbing out of the bath, I take his proffered hand. He wraps me inthe towel, pulls me into his arms, and kisses me hard, pushing his tongue into my mouth.
I long to reach round and embrace him... touch him... but he has my arms trapped in the
towel. I’m soon lost in his kiss. He cradles my head, his tongue exploring my mouth, and
I get a sense he’s expressing his gratitude – maybe – for my first blowjob? Whoa?
He pulls away, his hands on either side of my face, staring intently into my eyes. He
looks lost.
“Say yes,” he whispers fervently.
I frown, not understanding.
“To what?”
“Yes to our arrangement. To being mine. Please, Ana,” he whispers, emphasizing the
last word and my name, pleading. He kisses me again, sweetly, passionately, before he
stands back and stares at me, blinking slightly. He takes my hand and leads me back to
his bedroom, leaving me reeling, so I follow him meekly. Stunned. He really wants this.
In his bedroom, he stares down at me as we stand by his bed.
“Trust me?” he asks suddenly. I nod, wide-eyed with the sudden realization that I do
trust him. What’s he going to do to me now? An electric thrill hums through me.
“Good girl,” he breathes, his thumb brushing my bottom lip. He steps away into his
closet and comes back with a silver-grey silk woven tie.
“Knit your hands together in front of you,” he orders as he peels the towel off me and
throws it on the floor.
I do as he asks, and he binds my wrists together with his tie, knotting it firmly. His
eyes are bright with wild excitement. He tugs at the binding. It’s secure. Some boy scout
he must have been to learn these knots. What now? My pulse has gone through the roof,
my heart beating a frantic tattoo. He runs his fingers down my pigtails.
“You look so young with these,” he murmurs and moves forward. Instinctively, I move
back until I feel the bed against the back of my knees. He drops his towel, but I can’t take
my eyes off his face. His expression is ardent, full of desire.
“Oh, Anastasia, what shall I do to you?” he whispers as he lowers me on to the bed,
lying beside me, and raising my hands above my head.
“Keep your hands up here, don’t move them, understand?” His eyes burn into mine,
and I’m breathless from their intensity. This is not a man I want to cross... ever.
“Answer me,” he demands, his voice soft.
“I won’t move my hands.” I’m breathless.
“Good girl,” he murmurs and deliberately licks his lips slowly. I’m mesmerized by
his tongue as it sweeps slowly over his upper lip. He’s staring into my eyes, watching me,
appraising. He leans down and plants a chaste, swift kiss on my lips.
“I’m going to kiss you all over, Miss Steele,” he says softly, and he cups my chin, push-
ing it up giving him access to my throat. His lips glide down my throat, kissing, sucking,
and nipping, to the small dip at the base of my neck. My body leaps to attention... every-
where. My recent bath experience has made my skin hyper-sensitive. My heated blood
pools low in my belly, between my legs, right down there. I groan.
I want to touch him. I move my hands and rather awkwardly, given I’m restrained, feel
his hair. He stops kissing me and glares up at me, shaking his head from side to side, tutting
as he does. He reaches for my hands and places them above my head again.“Don’t move your hands, or we just have to start all over again,” he scolds me mildly.
Oh, he’s such a tease.
“I want to touch you.” My voice is all breathy and out of control.
“I know,” he murmurs. “Keep your hands above your head,” he orders, his voice
forceful.
He cups my chin again and starts to kiss my throat as before. Oh... he’s so frustrating.
His hands run down my body and over my breasts as he reaches the dip at the base of my
neck with his lips. He swirls the tip of his nose around it then begins a very leisurely cruise
with his mouth, heading south, following the path of his hands, down my sternum to my
breasts. Each one is kissed and nipped gently and my nipples tenderly sucked. Holy crap.
My hips start swaying and moving of their own accord, grinding to the rhythm of his mouth
on me, and I’m desperately trying to remember to keep my hands above my head.
“Keep still,” he warns, his breath warm against my skin. Reaching my navel, he dips
his tongue inside, and then gently grazes my belly with his teeth. My body bows off the
bed.
“Hmm. You are so sweet, Miss Steele.” His nose glides along the line between my
belly and my pubic hair, biting me gently, teasing me with his tongue. Sitting up suddenly,
he kneels at my feet, grasping both my ankles and spreading my legs wide.
Holy shit. He grabs my left foot, bends my knee, and brings my foot up to his mouth.
Watching and assessing my every reaction, he tenderly kisses each of my toes then bites
each one of them softly on the pads. When he reaches my little toe, he bites harder, and I
convulse, whimpering. He glides his tongue up my instep – and I can no longer watch him.
It’s too erotic. I’m going to combust. I squeeze my eyes shut and try to absorb and man-
age all the sensations he’s creating. He kisses my ankle and trails kisses up my calf to my
knee, stopping just above. He then starts on my right foot, repeating the whole, seductive,
mind-blowing process.
“Oh, please,” I moan as he bites my little toe, the action resonating deep in my belly.
“All good things, Miss Steele,” he breathes.
This time he doesn’t stop at my knee, he continues up the inside of my thigh, pushing
my thighs apart as he does. And I know what he’s going to do, and part of me wants to
push him off because I’m mortified and embarrassed. He’s going to kiss me there! I know
it. And part of me is glorying in the anticipation. He turns to my other knee and kisses
his way up my thigh, kissing, licking, sucking, and then he’s between my legs, running his
nose up and down my sex, very softly, very gently. I writhe... oh my.
He stops, waiting for me to calm. I do and raise my head to gaze at him, my mouth
open as my pounding heart struggles to come out.
“Do you know how intoxicating you smell, Miss Steele?” he murmurs, and keeping his
eyes on mine, he pushes his nose into my pubic hair and inhales.
I flush scarlet, everywhere, feeling faint, and I instantly close my eyes. I can’t watch
him do that!
He blows gently up the length of my sex. Oh fuck...
“I like this.” He gently tugs at my pubic hair. “Perhaps we’ll keep this.”
“Oh... please,” I beg.
“Hmm, I like it when you beg me, Anastasia.”I groan.
“Tit for tat is not my usual style, Miss Steele,” he whispers as he gently blows up and
down me. “But you’ve pleased me today, and you should be rewarded.” I hear the wicked
grin in his voice, and while my body is singing from his words, his tongue starts to slowly
circle my clitoris as his hands hold down my thighs.
“Aargh!” I moan as my body bows and convulses at the touch of his tongue.
He swirls his tongue round and round, again and again, keeping up the torture. I’m
losing all sense of self, every atom of my being concentrating hard on that small, potent
powerhouse at the apex of my thighs. My legs go rigid, and he slips his finger inside me,
and I hear his growling groan.
“Oh, baby. I love that you’re so wet for me.”
He moves his finger in a wide circle, stretching me, pulling at me, his tongue mirroring
his actions, round and round, I groan. It is too much... My body begs for relief, and I can
no longer deny it. I let go, losing all cogent thought as my orgasm seizes me, wringing my
insides again and again. Holy fuck. I cry out, and the world dips and disappears from view
as the force of my climax renders everything null and void.
I am panting and vaguely hear the rip of foil. Very slowly he eases into me and starts
to move. Oh... my. The feeling is sore and sweet, and bold and gentle all at once.
“How’s this?” he breathes.
“Fine. Good,” I breathe. And he really starts to move, fast, hard, and large, thrusting
into me over and over, implacable, pushing me and pushing me until I am close to the edge
again. I whimper.
“Come for me, baby.” His voice is harsh, hard, raw at my ear, and I explode around him
as he pounds rapidly into me.
“Thank fuck,” he whispers, and he thrusts hard once more and groans as he reaches his
climax, pressing himself into me. Then he stills, his body rigid.
Collapsing on top of me, I feel his full weight forcing me into the mattress. I pull my
tied hands over his neck and hold him the best I can. I know in that moment that I would
do anything for this man. I am his. The wonder that he’s introduced me to, it’s beyond
anything I could have imagined. And he wants to take it further, so much further, to a place
I can’t, in my innocence, even imagine. Oh... what to do?
He leans up on his elbows and stares down at me, gray eyes intense.
“See how good we are together,” he murmurs. “If you give yourself to me, it will be
so much better. Trust me, Anastasia, I can take you places you don’t even know exist.”
His words echo my thoughts. He strokes his nose against mine. I am still reeling from my
extraordinary physical reaction to him, and I gaze up at him blankly, grasping for a coher-
ent thought.
Suddenly we both become aware of voices in the hall outside his bedroom door. It
takes a moment to process what I can hear.
“But if he’s still in bed, then he must be ill. He’s never in bed at this time. Christian
never sleeps in.”
“Mrs. Grey, please.”
“Taylor. You cannot keep me from my son.”
“Mrs. Grey, he’s not alone.”“What do you mean he’s not alone?”
“He has someone with him.”
“ Oh... ” Even I hear the disbelief in her voice.
Christian blinks rapidly, staring down at me, wide-eyed with humored horror.
“Shit! It’s my mother.”He pulls out of me suddenly. I wince. He sits up on the bed and throws the used condom
in a wastebasket.
“Come on, we need to get dressed – that’s if you want to meet my mother.” He grins,
leaps up off the bed, and pulls on his jeans, no underwear! I struggle to sit up as I’m still
tethered.
“Christian - I can’t move.”
His grin widens, and leaning down, he undoes the tie. The woven pattern has made an
indented pattern around my wrists. It’s... sexy. He gazes at me. He’s amused, his eyes
dancing with mirth. He kisses my forehead quickly and beams at me.
“Another first,” he acknowledges, but I have no idea what he’s talking about.
“I have no clean clothes in here.” I am filled with sudden panic, and considering what
I’ve just experienced, I’m finding the panic overwhelming. His mother! Holy crap. I
have no clean clothes, and she’s practically walked in on us in flagrante delicto. “Perhaps
I should stay here.”
“Oh, no, you don’t,” Christian threatens. “You can wear something of mine.” He’s
slipped on a white t-shirt and runs his hand through his just-fucked hair. In spite of my
anxiety, I lose my train of thought. Will I ever get used to looking at this beautiful man?
His beauty is derailing.“Anastasia, you could be wearing a sack and you’d look lovely. Please don’t worry.
I’d like you to meet my mother. Get dressed. I’ll just go and calm her down.” His mouth
presses into a hard line. “I will expect you in that room in five minutes, otherwise I’ll come
and drag you out of here myself in whatever you’re wearing. My t-shirts are in this drawer.
My shirts are in the closet. Help yourself.” He eyes me speculatively for a moment, then
leaves the room.
Holy shit. Christian’s mother. This is so much more than I bargained for. Perhaps
meeting her will help put a little part of the jigsaw in place. Might help me understand why
Christian is the way he is... Suddenly, I want to meet her. I pull my shirt off the floor, and
I’m pleased to discover that it has survived the night well with hardly any creases. I find
my blue bra under the bed and dress quickly. But if there’s one thing I hate, it’s not wearing
clean panties. I rifle through Christian’s chest of drawers and come across his boxer briefs.
After pulling on a pair of tight gray Calvin Kleins, I tug on my jeans and my Converse.
Grabbing my jacket, I dash into the bathroom and stare at my too-bright eyes, my
flushed face – and my hair! Holy crap... just-fucked pigtails do not suit me either. I hunt
in the vanity unit for a brush and find a comb. It will have to do. A ponytail is the only
answer. I despair at my clothes. Maybe I should take Christian up on his offer of clothes.
My subconscious purses her lips and mouths the word ‘ho’. I ignore her. Struggling into
my jacket, pleased that the cuffs cover the tell-tale patterns from his tie, I take a last anxious
glance at myself in the mirror. This will have to do. I make my way into the main living
room.
“Here she is.” Christian stands from where he’s lounging on the couch.
His expression is warm and appreciative. The sandy-haired woman beside him turns
and beams at me, a full megawatt smile. She stands too. She’s impeccably attired in a
camel-colored fine knit sweater dress with matching shoes. She looks groomed, elegant,
beautiful, and inside I die a little, knowing I look such a mess.
“Mother, this is Anastasia Steele. Anastasia, this is Grace Trevelyan-Grey.”
Dr. Trevelyan-Grey holds her hand out to me. T... for Trevelyan?
“What a pleasure to meet you,” she murmurs. If I’m not mistaken, there is wonder and
maybe stunned relief in her voice and a warm glow in her hazel eyes. I grasp her hand, and
I can’t help but smile, returning her warmth.
“Dr. Trevelyan-Grey,” I murmur.
“Call me Grace,” she grins, and Christian frowns. “I am usually Dr. Trevelyan, and
Mrs. Grey is my mother-in-law.” She winks. “So how did you two meet?” She looks ques-
tioningly at Christian, unable to hide her curiosity.
“Anastasia interviewed me for the student paper at WSU because I’m conferring the
degrees there this week.”
Double crap. I’d forgotten that.
“So you are graduating this week?” Grace asks.
“Yes.”
My cell phone starts ringing. Kate, I bet.
“Excuse me.” It’s in the kitchen. I wander over and lean across the breakfast bar, not
checking the number.
“Kate.”“Dios mio! Ana!” Holy crap, it’s José. He sounds desperate. “Where are you? I’ve
been trying to contact you. I need to see you, to apologize for my behavior on Friday. Why
haven’t you returned my calls?”
“Look José, now’s not a good time.” I glance anxiously over at Christian who’s watch-
ing me intently, his face impassive as he murmurs something to his mom. I turn my back
to him.
“Where are you? Kate is being so evasive,” he whines.
“I’m in Seattle.”
“What are you doing in Seattle? Are you with him?”
“José, I’ll call you later. I can’t talk to you now.” I hang up.
I walk as nonchalantly back to Christian and his mother. Grace is in full flow.
“... And Elliot called to say you were around – I haven’t seen you for two weeks,
darling.”
“Did he now?” Christian murmurs, gazing at me, his expression unreadable.
“I thought we might have lunch together, but I can see you have other plans, and I don’t
want to interrupt your day.” She gathers up her long cream coat and turns to him, offering
him her cheek. He kisses her briefly, sweetly. She doesn’t touch him.
“I have to drive Anastasia back to Portland.”
“Of course, darling. Anastasia, it’s been such a pleasure. I do hope we meet again.”
She holds her hand out to me, her eyes glowing, and we shake.
Taylor appears from... where?
“Mrs. Grey?” he asks.
“Thank you, Taylor.” He escorts her from the room and through the double doors to the
foyer. Taylor was here the whole time? How long has he been here? Where has he been?
Christian glares at me.
“So the photographer called?”
Crap.
“Yes.”
“What did he want?”
“Just to apologize, you know – for Friday.”
Christian narrows his eyes.
“I see,” he says simply.
Taylor reappears.
“Mr. Grey, there’s an issue with the Darfur shipment.”
Christian nods curtly at him.
“Charlie Tango back at Boeing Field?”
“Yes sir.”
Taylor nods at me.
“Miss Steele.”
I smile tentatively back at him, and he turns and leaves.
“Does he live here? Taylor?”
“Yes.” His tone is clipped. What is his problem?
Christian heads over to the kitchen and picks up his BlackBerry, scrolling through
some emails, I assume. His mouth presses in a hard line, and he makes a call.“Ros, what’s the issue?” he snaps. He listens, watching me, gray eyes speculative, as
I stand in the middle of the huge room wondering what to do with myself, feeling extraor-
dinarily self-conscious and out of place.
“I’m not having either crew put at risk. No, cancel... We’ll air drop instead... Good.”
He hangs up. The warmth in his eyes has disappeared. He looks forbidding, and with one
quick glance at me, he heads into his study and returns a moment later.
“This is the contract. Read it, and we’ll discuss it next weekend. May I suggest you do
some research, so you know what’s involved.” He pauses. “That’s if you agree, and I really
hope you do.” He adds, his tone softer, anxious.
“Research?”
“You’ll be amazed what you can find on the Internet,” he murmurs.
Internet! I don’t have access to a computer, only Kate’s laptop, and I couldn’t use Clay-
ton’s, not for this sort of ‘research’ surely?
“What is it?” he asks, cocking his head to one side.
“I don’t have a computer. I’ll see if I can use Kate’s laptop.”
He hands me a manila envelope.
“I’m sure I can... err, lend you one. Grab your things, we’ll drive back to Portland and
grab some lunch on the way. I need to dress.”
“I’ll just make a call,” I murmur. I just want to hear Kate’s voice. He frowns.
“The photographer?” His jaw clenches, and his eyes burn. I blink at him. “I don’t like
to share, Miss Steele. Remember that.” His quiet, chilling tone is a warning, and with one
long, cold look at me, he heads back to the bedroom.
Holy crap. I just wanted to call Kate, I want to call after him, but his sudden aloofness
has left me paralyzed. What happened to the generous, relaxed, smiling man who was
making love to me not half an hour ago?
“Ready?” Christian asks as we stand by the double doors to the foyer.
I nod uncertainly. He’s resumed his distant, polite, uptight persona, his mask back up
and on show. He’s carrying a leather messenger bag. Why does he need that? Perhaps he’s
staying in Portland, and then I remember graduation. Oh yes... he’ll be there on Thursday.
He’s wearing a black leather jacket. He certainly doesn’t look like the multi-multi million-
aire, billionaire, what-ever-aire, in these clothes. He looks like a boy from the wrong side
of the tracks, maybe a badly behaved rock star or a catwalk model. I sigh inwardly, wish-
ing I had a tenth of his poise. He’s so calm and controlled. I frown, recalling his outburst
about José... Well, he seems to be.
Taylor is hovering in the background.
“Tomorrow then,” he says to Taylor who nods.
“Yes sir. Which car are you taking, sir?”
He looks down at me briefly.
“The R8.”
“Safe trip, Mr. Grey. Miss Steele.” Taylor looks kindly at me, though perhaps there’s
a hint of pity hidden in the depths of his eyes.
No doubt he thinks I’ve succumbed to Mr. Grey’s dubious sexual habits. Not yet,
just his exceptional sexual habits, or perhaps sex is like that for everyone. I frown at thethought. I have no comparison, and I can’t ask Kate. That’s something I am going to have
to address with Christian. It’s perfectly natural that I should talk to someone – and I can’t
talk to him if he is so open one minute and so standoffish the next.
Taylor holds the door open for us and ushers us through. Christian summons the eleva-
tor.
“What is it, Anastasia?” he asks. How does he know I’m chewing something over in
my mind? He reaches up and pulls my chin.
“Stop biting your lip, or I will fuck you in the elevator, and I don’t care who gets in
with us.”
I blush, but there’s a hint of a smile around his lips, finally his mood seems to be shift-
ing.
“Christian, I have a problem.”
“Oh?” I have his full attention.
The elevator arrives. We walk in, and Christian presses the button marked G.
“Well,” I flush. How to say this? “I need to talk to Kate. I’ve so many questions about
sex, and you’re too involved. If you want me to do all these things, how do I know–?” I
pause, struggling to find the right words. “I just don’t have any terms of reference.”
He rolls his eyes at me.
“Talk to her if you must.” He sounds exasperated. “Make sure she doesn’t mention
anything to Elliot.”
I bristle at his insinuation. Kate isn’t like that.
“She wouldn’t do that, and I wouldn’t tell you anything she tells me about Elliot – if
she were to tell me anything,” I add quickly.
“Well, the difference is that I don’t want to know about his sex life,” Christian mur-
murs dryly. “Elliot’s a nosy bastard. But only about what we’ve done so far,” he warns.
“She’d probably have my balls if she knew what I wanted to do to you,” he adds so softly
I’m not sure I’m supposed to hear it.
“Okay,” I agree readily, smiling up at him, relieved. The thought of Kate with Chris-
tian’s balls is not something I want to dwell on.
His lip quirks up at me, and he shakes his head.
“The sooner I have your submission the better, and we can stop all this,” he murmurs.
“Stop all what?”
“You, defying me.” He reaches down and cups my chin and plants a swift, sweet kiss
on my lips as the doors to the elevator open. He grabs my hand and leads me into the un-
derground garage.
Me, defying him... how?
Beside the elevator, I can see the black 4x4 Audi, but it’s the sleek, black sporty num-
ber that blips open and lights up when he points the key fob at it. It’s one of those cars that
should have a very leggy blonde, wearing nothing but a sash, sprawled across the hood.
“Nice car,” I murmur dryly.
He glances up and grins.
“I know,” he says, and for a split second, sweet, young, carefree Christian is back. It
warms my heart. He’s so excited. Boys and their toys. I roll my eyes at him but can’t stiflemy smile. He opens the door for me and I climb in. Whoa... it’s low. He moves round the
car with easy grace and folds his long frame elegantly in beside me. How does he do that?
“So what sort of car is this?”
“It’s an Audi R8 Spyder. It’s a lovely day, we can take the top down. There’s a baseball
cap in there. In fact there should be two.” He points to the glove box. “And sunglasses if
you want them.”
He starts the ignition, and the engine roars behind us. He places his bag in the space
behind our seats, presses a button, and the roof slowly reclines. With the flick of a switch,
Bruce Springsteen surrounds us.
“Gotta love Bruce,” he grins at me and eases the car out of the parking space, and up
the steep ramp where we pause for the barrier.
Then we’re out into the bright Seattle May morning. I reach into the glove box and
retrieve the baseball caps. The Mariners. He likes baseball? I pass him a cap, and he puts
it on. I pass my ponytail through the back of mine and pull the peak down low.
People stare at us as we drive through the streets. For a moment, I think it’s at him...
and then a very paranoid part thinks everyone is looking at me because they know what
I’ve been doing during the last twelve hours, but finally, I realize it’s the car. Christian
seems oblivious, lost in thought.
The traffic is light and we’re soon on the I-5 heading south, the wind sweeping over
our heads. Bruce is singing about being on fire and his desire. How apt. I flush as I listen
to the words. Christian glances at me. He’s got his Ray-Bans on so I can’t see what he’s
thinking. His mouth twitches slightly, and he reaches across and places his hand on my
knee, squeezing gently. My breath hitches.
“Hungry?” he asks.
Not for food.
“Not particularly.”
His mouth tightens into that hard line.
“You must eat, Anastasia,” he chides. “I know a great place near Olympia. We’ll stop
there.” He squeezes my knee again, and then returns his hand to the steering wheel as he
puts his foot down on the gas. I’m pressed into the back of my seat. Boy this car can move.
The restaurant is small and intimate, a wooden chalet in the middle of a forest. The
décor is rustic: random chairs and tables with gingham tablecloths, wild flowers in little
vases. Cuisine Sauvage, it boasts above the door.
“I’ve not been here for a while. We don’t get a choice – they cook whatever they’ve
caught or gathered.” He raises his eyebrows in mock horror, and I have to laugh. The
waitress takes our drinks order. She flushes when she sees Christian, avoiding eye contact
with him, hiding under her long blonde bangs. She likes him! It’s not just me!
“Two glasses of the Pinot Grigio,” Christian says with a voice of authority. I purse my
lips, exasperated.
“What?” he snaps.
“I wanted a Diet Coke,” I whisper.
His gray eyes narrow, and he shakes his head.“The Pinot Grigio here’s a decent wine, it will go well with the meal, whatever we get.”
He says patiently.
“Whatever we get?”
“Yes.” He smiles, his dazzling, head cocked to one side smile, and my stomach pole
vaults over my spleen. I can’t help but reflect his glorious smile back at him.
“My mother liked you,” he says dryly.
“Really?” His words make me flush with pleasure.
“Oh yes. She’s always thought I was gay.”
My mouth drops open, and I remember that question... from the interview. Oh no.
“Why did she think you were gay?” I whisper.
“Because she’s never seen me with a girl.”
“Oh... not even one of the fifteen?”
He smiles.
“You remembered. No, none of the fifteen.”
“Oh.”
“You know, Anastasia, it’s been a weekend of firsts for me, too,” he says quietly.
“It has?”
“I’ve never slept with anyone, never had sex in my bed, never flown a girl in Charlie
Tango, never introduced a woman to my mother. What are you doing to me?” His eyes
burn, their intensity takes my breath away.
The waitress arrives with our glasses of wine, and I immediately take a quick sip. Is
he opening up or just making a casual observation?
“I’ve really enjoyed this weekend,” I murmur. He narrows his eyes at me again.
“Stop biting that lip,” he growls. “Me too,” he adds.
“What’s vanilla sex?” I ask, if anything to distract myself from the intense, burning,
sexy look he’s giving me. He laughs.
“Just straightforward sex, Anastasia. No toys, no added extras.” He shrugs. “You
know... well actually you don’t, but that’s what it means.”
“Oh.” I thought it was chocolate fudge brownie sex that we had, with a cherry on the
top. But hey, what do I know?
The waitress brings us soup. We both stare at it rather dubiously.
“Nettle soup,” the waitress informs us before turning and flouncing back into the kitch-
en. I don’t think she likes to be ignored by Christian. I take a tentative taste. It’s delicious.
Christian and I look up at each other at the same time with relief. I giggle, and he cocks
his head to one side.
“That’s a lovely sound,” he murmurs.
“Why have you never had vanilla sex before? Have you always done... err, what
you’ve done?” I ask, intrigued.
He nods slowly.
“Sort of.” His voice is wary. He frowns for a moment and seems to be engaged in
some kind of internal struggle. Then he glances up, a decision made. “One of my mother’s
friends seduced me when I was fifteen.”
“Oh.” Holy shit that’s young!
“She had very particular tastes. I was her submissive for six years.” He shrugs.“Oh.” My brain has frozen, stunned into inactivity by this admission.
“So I do know what it involves, Anastasia.” His eyes glow with insight.
I stare at him, unable to articulate anything – even my subconscious is silent.
“I didn’t really have a run-of-the-mill introduction to sex.”
Curiosity kicks in big time.
“So you never dated anyone at college?”
“No.” He shakes his head to emphasize the point.
The waitress takes our plates, interrupting us for a moment.
“Why?” I ask when she’s gone.
He smiles sardonically.
“Do you really want to know?”
“Yes.”
“I didn’t want to. She was all I wanted, needed. And besides, she’d have beaten the
shit out of me.” He smiles fondly at the memory.
Oh, this is way too much information – but I want more.
“So if she was a friend of your mother’s, how old was she?”
He smirks.
“Old enough to know better.”
“Do you still see her?”
“Yes.”
“Do you still... err... ?” I flush.
“No.” He shakes his head and smiles indulgently at me. “She’s a very good friend.”
“Oh. Does your mother know?”
He gives me a don’t-be-stupid stare.
“Of course not.”
The waitress returns with venison, but my appetite has vanished. What a revelation.
Christian the submissive... Holy shit. I take a large slug of Pinot Grigio – he’s right, of
course, it’s delicious. Jeez, all these revelations, it’s so much to think about. I need time
to process this, when I’m on my own, not when I’m distracted by his presence. He’s so
overwhelming, so Alpha Male, and now he’s thrown this bombshell into the equation. He
knows what it’s like.
“But it can’t have been full time?” I’m confused.
“Well, it was, though I didn’t see her all the time. It was... difficult. After all, I was
still at school and then at college. Eat up, Anastasia.”
“I’m really not hungry, Christian.” I am reeling from your disclosure.
His expression hardens.
“Eat,” he says quietly, too quietly.
I stare at him. This man – sexually abused as an adolescent – his tone is so threatening.
“Give me a moment,” I mutter quietly. He blinks a couple of times.
“Okay,” he murmurs, and he continues with his meal.
This is what it will be like if I sign, him ordering me around. I frown. Do I want this?
Reaching for my knife and fork, I tentatively cut into the venison. It’s very tasty.
“Is this what our err... relationship will be like?” I whisper. “You, ordering me
around?” I can’t quite bring myself to look at him.“Yes,” he murmurs.
“I see.”
“And what’s more, you’ll want me to,” he adds, his voice low.
I sincerely doubt that. I slice another piece of venison, holding it against my mouth.
“It’s a big step,” I murmur and eat.
“It is.” He closes his eyes briefly. When he opens them, they are wide and grave.
“Anastasia, you have to go with your gut. Do the research, read the contract – I’m happy
to discuss any aspect. I’ll be in Portland until Friday if you want to talk about it before
then.” His words are coming at me in a rush. “Call me – maybe we can have dinner – say,
Wednesday? I really want to make this work. In fact, I’ve never wanted anything as much
as I want this to work.”
His burning sincerity, his longing, is reflected in his eyes. This is fundamentally what I
don’t grasp. Why me? Why not one of the fifteen? Oh no... Will that be me – a number?
Sixteen of many?
“What happened to the fifteen?” I blurt.
He raises his eyebrows in surprise, then looks resigned, shaking his head.
“Various things, but it boils down to,” he pauses, struggling to find the words I think.
“Incompatibility.” He shrugs.
“And you think that I might be compatible with you?”
“Yes.”
“So you’re not seeing any of them anymore?”
“No, Anastasia, I’m not. I am monogamous in my relationships.”
Oh... this is news.
“I see.”
“Do the research, Anastasia.”
I put my knife and fork down. I cannot eat any more.
“That’s it? That’s all you’re going to eat?”
I nod. He scowls at me but chooses not to say anything. I breathe a small sigh of relief.
My stomach is churning with all this new information, and I’m feeling a little lightheaded
from the wine. I watch as he devours everything on his plate. He eats like a horse. He
must work out to stay in such great shape. The memory of the way his PJ’s hung from his
hips comes unbidden to my mind. The image is totally distracting. I squirm uncomfort-
ably. He glances up at me, and I blush.
“I’d give anything to know what you’re thinking right at this moment,” he murmurs.
I blush further.
He smiles a wicked smile at me.
“I can guess,” he teases softly.
“I’m glad you can’t read my mind.”
“Your mind, no, Anastasia, but your body – that I’ve got to know quite well since
yesterday.” His voice is suggestive. How does he switch so quickly from one mood to the
next? He’s so mercurial... It’s hard to keep up.
He motions for the waitress and asks for the check. Once he’s paid, he stands and holds
out his hand.“Come.” Taking my hand in his, he leads me back to the car. This contact, flesh to
flesh, it’s what is so unexpected from him, normal, intimate. I can’t reconcile this ordinary,
tender gesture with what he wants to do in that room... The Red Room of Pain.
We are quiet on the drive from Olympia to Vancouver, both lost in our own thoughts.
When he parks outside my apartment, it’s five in the evening. The lights are on – Kate is
at home. Packing, no doubt, unless Elliot is still there. He switches off the engine, and I
realize I’m going to have to leave him.
“Do you want to come in?” I ask. I don’t want him to go. I want to prolong our time
together.
“No. I have work to do,” he says simply, gazing at me, his expression unfathomable.
I stare down at my hands, as I knot my fingers together. Suddenly I feel emotional.
He’s leaving. Reaching over, he takes one of my hands and slowly pulls it to his mouth,
tenderly kissing the back of my hand, such an old fashioned, sweet gesture. My heart leaps
into my mouth.
“Thank you for this weekend, Anastasia. It’s been... the best. Wednesday? I’ll pick
you up from work, from wherever?” he says softly.
“Wednesday,” I whisper.
He kisses my hand again and places it back in my lap. He climbs out, comes round to
my side, and opens the passenger door. Why do I feel suddenly bereft? A lump forms in
my throat. I must not let him see me like this. Fixing a smile on my face, I clamber out of
the car and head up the path, knowing I have to face Kate, dreading facing Kate. I turn and
gaze at him midway. Chin up Steele, I chide myself.
“Oh... by the way, I’m wearing your underwear.” I give him a small smile and pull up
the waistband of the boxer briefs I’m wearing so he can see. Christian’s mouth drops open,
shocked. What a great reaction. My mood shifts immediately, and I sashay into the house,
part of me wanting to jump and punch the air. YES! My inner goddess is thrilled.
Kate is in the living area packing up her books into crates.
“You’re back. Where’s Christian? How are you?” Her voice is fevered, anxious, and
she bounds up to me, grabbing my shoulders, minutely analyzing my face before I’ve even
said hello.
Crap... I have to deal with Kate’s persistence and tenacity, and I’m in possession of a
legal signed document saying I can’t talk. It’s not a healthy mix.
“Well how was it? I couldn’t stop thinking about you, after Elliot left, that is.” She
grins mischievously.
I can’t help but smile at her concern and her burning curiosity, but suddenly I feel shy.
I blush. It was very private. All of it. Seeing and knowing what Christian has to hide. But
I have to give her some details, because she won’t leave me alone until I do.
“It was good, Kate. Very good, I think,” I say quietly, trying to hide my embarrassed
tell-all smile.
“You think?”
“I’ve got nothing to compare it to, do I?” I shrug apologetically.
“Did he make you come?”
Holy crap. She’s so blunt. I go scarlet.
“Yes,” I mumble, exasperated.Kate pulls me to the couch and we sit. She clasps my hands.
“That is good.” Kate looks at me in disbelief. “It was your first time. Wow, Christian
must really know what he’s doing.”
Oh Kate, if only you knew.
“My first time was horrid,” she continues, making a sad comedy face.
“Oh?” This has me interested, something she’s never divulged before.
“Yes, Steve Paton. High school, dickless jock.” She shudders. “He was rough. I
wasn’t ready. We were both drunk. You know – typical teenage post-prom disaster. Ugh
– it took me months before I decided to have another go. And not with him, the gutless
wonder. I was too young. You were right to wait.”
“Kate, that sounds awful.”
Kate looks wistful.
“Yeah, took almost a year to have my first orgasm through penetrative sex and here
you are... first time?”
I nod shyly. My inner goddess sits in the lotus position looking serene except for the
sly, self-congratulatory smile on her face.
“I’m glad you lost it to someone who knows their ass from their elbow.” She winks at
me. “So when are you seeing him again?”
“Wednesday. We’re having dinner.”
“So you still like him?”
“Yes. But I don’t know about... the future.”
“Why?”
“He’s complicated, Kate. You know – he inhabits a very different world to mine.”
Great excuse. Believable too. Much better than – he’s got a Red Room of Pain, and he
wants to make me his sex slave.
“Oh please, don’t let this be about money, Ana. Elliot said it’s very unusual for Chris-
tian to date anyone.”
“Did he?” My voice hitches up several octaves.
Too obvious, Steele! My subconscious glares at me, wagging her long skinny finger,
then morphs into the scales of justice to remind me he could sue if I disclose too much.
Ha... what’s he going to do – take all my money? I must remember to Google ‘penalties
for breaching a non-disclosure agreement’ while I’m doing the rest of my ‘research’. It’s
like I’ve been given a school assignment. Maybe I’ll be graded. I flush, remembering my
A for this morning’s bath experiment.
“Ana, what is it?”
“I’m just remembering something Christian said.”
“You look different,” Kate says fondly.
“I feel different. Sore,” I confess.
“Sore?”
“A little.” I flush.
“Me too. Men,” she says in mock disgust. “They’re animals.” We both laugh.
“You’re sore?” I exclaim.
“Yes... overuse.”
I giggle.“Tell me about Elliot the over-user,” I ask when I’ve stopped giggling. Oh, I can feel
myself relaxing for the first time since I was in line at the bar... before the phone call that
started all this – when I was admiring Mr. Grey from afar. Happy uncomplicated days.
Kate blushes. Oh my... Katherine Agnes Kavanagh goes all Anastasia Rose Steele on
me. She gives me a dewy-eyed look. I’ve never seen her react this way to a man before.
My jaw drops to the floor. Where’s Kate, what have you done with her?
“Oh, Ana,” she gushes. “He’s just so... Everything. And when we... oh... really
good.” She can hardly string a sentence together she’s got it so bad.
“I think you’re trying to tell me that you like him.”
She nods, grinning like a lunatic.
“And I’m seeing him on Saturday. He’s going to help us move.” She clasps her hands
together, leaps up off the couch, and pirouettes to the window. Moving. Crap – I’d forgot-
ten all about that, even with the packing cases surrounding us.
“That’s helpful of him,” I say appreciatively. I can get to know him too. Perhaps he
can give me more insight into his strange, disturbing brother.
“So what did you do last night?” I ask. She cocks her head at me and raises her eye-
brows in a what-do-think-stupid-look.
“Pretty much what you did, though we had dinner first.” She grins at me. “Are you
okay really? You look kind of overwhelmed.”
“I feel overwhelmed. Christian is very intense.”
“Yeah, I could see how he could be. But he was good to you?”
“Yes,” I reassure her. “I’m really hungry, shall I cook?”
She nods and picks up two more books to pack.
“What do you want to do with the fourteen thousand dollar books?” she asks.
“I’m going to return them to him.”
“Really?”
“It’s a completely over-the-top gift. I can’t accept it, especially now.” I grin at Kate,
and she nods.
“I understand. A couple of letters came for you, and José has been calling every hour
on the hour. He sounded desperate.”
“I’ll call him,” I mutter evasively. If I tell Kate about José, she’ll have him for break-
fast. I collect the letters from the dining table and open them.
“Hey, I have interviews! The week after next, in Seattle, for intern placements!”
“For which publishing house?”
“For both of them!”
“I told you your GPA would open doors, Ana.”
Kate, of course, already has an internship set up at the Seattle Times. Her father knows
someone, who knows someone.
“How does Elliot feel about you going away?” I ask.
Kate wanders into the kitchen, and for the first time this evening, she’s disconsolate.
“He’s understanding. Part of me doesn’t want to go, but it’s tempting to lie in the sun
for a couple of weeks. Besides, Mom is hanging in there, thinking this will be our last real
family holiday before Ethan and I head off into the world of paid employment.”I have never left continental US. Kate is off to Barbados with her parents and her
brother Ethan for two whole weeks. I’ll be Kateless in our new apartment. That will be
weird. Ethan has been traveling the world since he graduated last year. I wonder briefly if
I’ll see him before they go on vacation. He’s such a lovely guy. The phone rings, jolting
me from my reverie.
“That’ll be José.”
I sigh. I know I have to talk to him. I grab the phone.
“Hi.”
“Ana, you’re back!” José shouts his relief at me.
“Obviously.” Sarcasm drips from my voice, and I roll my eyes at the phone.
He’s silent for a moment.
“Can I see you? I’m sorry about Friday night. I was drunk... and you... well. Ana –
please forgive me.”
“Of course, I forgive you José. Just don’t do it again. You know I don’t feel like that
about you.”
He sighs heavily, sadly.
“I know, Ana. I just thought, if I kissed you, it might change how you feel.”
“José, I love you dearly, you mean so much to me. You’re like the brother I never had.
That’s not going to change. You know that.” I hate to let him down, but it’s the truth.
“So you’re with him now?” His tone is full of disdain.
“José, I’m not with anybody.”
“But you spent the night with him.”
“That’s none of your business!”
“Is it the money?”
“José! How dare you!” I shout, staggered by his audacity.
“Ana,” he whines and apologizes simultaneously. I cannot deal with his petty jealousy
now. I know he’s hurt, but my plate is overflowing dealing with Christian Grey.
“Maybe we can have a coffee or something tomorrow. I’ll call you.” I am conciliatory.
He is my friend, and I’m very fond of him. But right now, I don’t need this.
“Tomorrow then. You’ll call?” The hope in his voice twists my heart.
“Yes... goodnight, José.” I hang up, not waiting for his response.
“What was that all about?” Katherine demands, her hands on her hips. I decide hon-
esty is the policy. She’s looking more intractable than ever.
“He made a pass at me on Friday.”
“José? And Christian Grey? Ana, your pheromones must be working overtime. What
was the stupid fool thinking?” She shakes her head in disgust and returns to packing crates.
Forty-five minutes later, we pause our packing for the house specialty, my lasagna.
Kate opens a bottle of wine, and we sit amongst the boxes eating, quaffing cheap red wine,
and watching crap TV. This is normality. It’s so grounding and welcome after the last
forty-eight hours of... madness. I eat my first unhurried, no nagging, peaceful meal in that
time. What is it about him and food? Kate clears the dishes, and I finish packing up the
living room. We are left with the couch, the TV, and the dining table. What more could
we need? Just the kitchen and our bedrooms left to pack up, and we have the rest of the
week. Result!The phone rings again. It’s Elliot. Kate winks at me and skips off to her bedroom like
she’s fourteen. I know that she should be writing her Valedictorian speech, but it seems El-
liot is more important. What is it about the Grey men? What is it that makes them totally
distracting, all-consuming, and irresistible? I take another slug of wine.
I flick through the TV channels, but deep down I know I’m procrastinating. Burning
a bright red hole in the side of my purse is that contract. Do I have the strength and the
wherewithal to read it tonight?
I put my head in my hands. José and Christian, they both want something from me.
José is easy to deal with. But Christian... Christian takes a whole different league of han-
dling, of understanding. Part of me wants to run and hide. What am I going to do? His
burning gray eyes and that intense smoldering stare come into my mind’s eye, and my body
tightens at the thought. I gasp. He’s not even here, and I’m turned on. It just can’t be about
sex, can it? I recall his gentle banter this morning at breakfast, his joy at my delight with
the helicopter ride, him playing the piano – the sweet soulful oh-so-sad music.
He’s such a complicated person. And now I have an insight as to why. A young man
deprived of his adolescence, sexually abused by some evil Mrs. Robinson figure... no
wonder he’s old before his time. My heart fills with sadness at the thought of what he must
have been through. I’m too naïve to know exactly what, but the research should shed some
light. But do I really want to know? Do I want to explore this world I know nothing about?
It’s such a big step.
If I’d not met him, I’d still be sweetly and blissfully oblivious. My mind drifts to last
night, and this morning... and the incredible, sensual sexuality I’ve experienced. Do I
want to say goodbye to that? No! Screams my subconscious... my inner goddess nods in
silent zen-like agreement with her.
Kate wanders back into the living room, grinning from ear to ear. Perhaps she’s in
love – I gape at her. She’s never behaved like this.
“Ana, I’m off to bed. I’m pretty tired.”
“Me too, Kate.”
She hugs me.
“I’m glad you’re back in one piece. There’s something about Christian,” she adds qui-
etly, apologetically. I give her a small, reassuring smile – all the while thinking... How the
hell does she know? This is what will make her a great journalist, her unfaltering intuition.
Collecting my purse, I wander listlessly into my bedroom. I am weary from all our
carnal exertions of the last day and from the complete and utter dilemma that I’m faced
with. I sit on my bed and gingerly extract the manila envelope from the bag, turning it over
and over in my hands. Do I really want to know the extent of Christian’s depravity? It’s
so daunting. I take a deep breath, and with my heart in my throat, I rip open the envelope.There are several papers inside the envelope. I fish them out, my heart still pounding, and
I sit back on my bed and begin to read.
CONTRACT
Made this day_________ of 2011 (“The Commencement Date”)
BETWEEN
MR. CHRISTIAN GREY of 301 Escala, Seattle, WA 98889
(“The Dominant”)
MISS ANASTASIA STEELE of 1114 SW Green Street, Apartment 7, Haven Heights,
Vancouver, WA 98888
(“The Submissive”)
THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS
1 The following are the terms of a binding contract between the Dominant and the
Submissive.
FUNDAMENTAL TERMS
2 The fundamental purpose of this contract is to allow the Submissive to explore her
sensuality and her limits safely, with due respect and regard for her needs, her limits
and her wellbeing.3 The Dominant and the Submissive agree and acknowledge that all that occurs under
the terms of this contract will be consensual, confidential, and subject to the agreed
limits and safety procedures set out in this contract. Additional limits and safety pro-
cedures may be agreed in writing.
4 The Dominant and the Submissive each warrant that they suffer from no sexual,
serious, infectious or life-threatening illnesses including but not limited to HIV, Her-
pes and Hepatitis. If during the Term (as defined below) or any extended term of this
contract either party should be diagnosed with or become aware of any such illness he
or she undertakes to inform the other immediately and in any event prior to any form
of physical contact between the parties.
5 Adherence to the above warranties, agreements and undertakings (and any addition-
al limits and safety procedures agreed under clause 3 above) are fundamental to this
contract. Any breach shall render it void with immediate effect and each party agrees
to be fully responsible to the other for the consequence of any breach.
6 Everything in this contract must be read and interpreted in the light of the fundamen-
tal purpose and the fundamental terms set out in clauses 2-5 above.
ROLES
7 The Dominant shall take responsibility for the wellbeing and the proper training,
guidance, and discipline of the Submissive. He shall decide the nature of such train-
ing, guidance, and discipline and the time and place of its administration, subject to
the agreed terms, limitations and safety procedures set out in this contract or agreed
additionally under clause 3 above.
8 If at any time the Dominant should fail to keep to the agreed terms, limitations and
safety procedures set out in this contract or agreed additionally under clause 3 above
the Submissive is entitled to terminate this contract forthwith and to leave the service
of the Dominant without notice.
9 Subject to that proviso and to clauses 2-5 above the Submissive is to serve and obey
the Dominant in all things. Subject to the agreed terms, limitations and safety pro-
cedures set out in this contract or agreed additionally under clause 3 above she shall
without query or hesitation offer the Dominant such pleasure as he may require and
she shall accept without query or hesitation his training, guidance and discipline in
whatever form it may take.
COMMENCEMENT AND TERM
10 The Dominant and Submissive enter into this contract on The Commencement Date
fully aware of its nature and undertake to abide by its conditions without exception.
11 This contract shall be effective for a period of three Calendar Months from The
Commencement Date (“The Term”). On the expiry of The Term the parties shall dis-
cuss whether this contract and the arrangements they have made under this contract are
satisfactory and whether the needs of each party have been met. Either party may pro-
pose the extension of this contract subject to adjustments to its terms, or to the arrange-
ments they have made under it. In the absence of agreement to such extension this
contract shall terminate and both parties shall be free to resume their lives separately.
AVAILABILITY12 The Submissive will make herself available to the Dominant from Friday evenings
through to Sunday afternoons each week during the Term at times to be specified by
the Dominant (“the Allotted Times”). Further allocated time can be mutually agreed
on an ad hoc basis.
13 The Dominant reserves the right to dismiss the Submissive from his service at any
time and for any reason. The Submissive may request her release at any time, such
request to be granted at the discretion of the Dominant subject only to the Submissive’s
rights under clauses 2-5 and 8 above.
LOCATION
14 The Submissive will make herself available during the Allotted Times and agreed
additional times at locations to be determined by the Dominant. The Dominant will
ensure that all travel costs incurred by the Submissive for that purpose are met by the
Dominant.
SERVICE PROVISIONS
15 The following service provisions have been discussed and agreed and will be ad-
hered to by both parties during the Term. Both parties accept that certain matters may
arise which are not covered by the terms of this contract or the service provisions, or
that certain matters may be renegotiated. In such circumstance further clauses may be
proposed by way of amendment. Any further clauses or amendments must be agreed,
documented and signed by both parties and shall be subject to the fundamental terms
set out at clauses 2-5 above.
DOMINANT
15.1 The Dominant shall make the Submissive’s health and safety a priority at all
times. The Dominant shall not at any time require, request, allow or demand the Sub-
missive to participate at the hands of the Dominant in the activities detailed in Ap-
pendix 2 or in any act that either party deems to be unsafe. The Dominant will not
undertake or permit to be undertaken any action which could cause serious injury or
any risk to the Submissive’s life. The remaining sub-clauses of this clause 15 are to be
read subject to this proviso and to the fundamental matters agreed in clauses 2-5 above.
15.2 The Dominant accepts the Submissive as his, to own, control, dominate and dis-
cipline during the Term. The Dominant may use the Submissive’s body at any time
during the Allotted Times or any agreed additional times in any manner he deems fit,
sexually or otherwise.
15.3 The Dominant shall provide the Submissive with all necessary training and guid-
ance in how to properly serve the Dominant.
15.4 The Dominant shall maintain a stable and safe environment in which the Submis-
sive may perform her duties in service of the Dominant.
15.5 The Dominant may discipline the Submissive as necessary to ensure the Sub-
missive fully appreciates her role of subservience to the Dominant and to discourage
unacceptable conduct. The Dominant may flog, spank, whip or corporally punish the
Submissive as he sees fit, for purposes of discipline, for his own personal enjoyment,
or for any other reason, which he is not obliged to provide.15.6 In training and in the administration of discipline the Dominant shall ensure that
no permanent marks are made upon the Submissive’s body nor any injuries incurred
that may require medical attention.
15.7 In training and in the administration of discipline the Dominant shall ensure that
the discipline and the instruments used for the purposes of discipline are safe, shall not
be used in such a way as to cause serious harm and shall not in any way exceed the
limits defined and detailed in this contract.
15.8 In case of illness or injury the Dominant shall care for the Submissive, seeing
to her health and safety, encouraging and when necessary ordering medical attention
when it is judged necessary by the Dominant.
15.9 The Dominant shall maintain his own good health and seek medical attention
when necessary in order to maintain a risk-free environment
15.10 The Dominant shall not loan his Submissive to another Dominant.
15.11 The Dominant may restrain, handcuff, or bind the Submissive at any time dur-
ing the Allotted Times or any agreed additional times for any reason and for extended
periods of time, giving due regard to the health and safety of the Submissive.
15.12 The Dominant will ensure that all equipment used for the purposes of training
and discipline shall be maintained in a clean, hygienic and safe state at all times.
SUBMISSIVE
15.13 The Submissive accepts the Dominant as her master, with the understanding
that she is now the property of the Dominant, to be dealt with as the Dominant pleases
during the Term generally but specifically during the Allotted Times and any additional
agreed allotted times.
15.14 The Submissive shall obey the rules (“the Rules”) set out in Appendix 1 to this
agreement.
15.15 The Submissive shall serve the Dominant in any way the Dominant sees fit and
shall endeavor to please the Dominant at all times to the best of her ability.
15.16 The Submissive shall take all measures necessary to maintain her good health
and shall request or seek medical attention whenever it is needed, keeping the Domi-
nant informed at all times of any health issues that may arise.
15.17 The Submissive will ensure that she procures oral contraception and ensure that
she takes it as and when prescribed to prevent any pregnancy.
15.18 The Submissive shall accept without question any and all disciplinary actions
deemed necessary by the Dominant and remember her status and role in regard to the
Dominant at all times.
15.19 The Submissive shall not touch or pleasure herself sexually without permission
from the Dominant.
15.20 The Submissive shall submit to any sexual activity demanded by the Dominant
and shall do without hesitation or argument.
15.21 The Submissive shall accept whippings, floggings, spankings, caning, paddling
or any other discipline the Dominant should decide to administer, without hesitation,
enquiry or complaint.15.22 The Submissive shall not look directly into the eyes of the Dominant except
when specifically instructed to do so. The Submissive shall keep her eyes cast down
and maintain a quiet and respectful bearing in the presence of the Dominant.
15.23 The Submissive shall always conduct herself in a respectful manner to the Dom-
inant and shall address him only as Sir, Mr. Grey, or such other title as the Dominant
may direct.
15.24 The Submissive will not touch the Dominant without his express permission to
do so.
ACTIVITIES
16 The Submissive shall not participate in activities or any sexual acts that either party
deems to be unsafe or any activities detailed in Appendix 2.
17 The Dominant and the Submissive have discussed the activities set out in Appendix
3 and recorded in writing on Appendix 3 their agreement in respect of them.
SAFEWORDS
18 The Dominant and the Submissive recognize that the Dominant may make demands
of the Submissive that cannot be met without incurring physical, mental, emotional,
spiritual, or other harm at the time the demands are made to the Submissive. In such
circumstances related to this, the Submissive may make use of a safeword (“The Safe-
word (s)”). Two Safewords will be invoked depending on the severity of the demands.
19 The Safeword “Yellow” will be used to bring to the attention of the Dominant that
the Submissive is close to her limit of endurance.
20 The Safeword “Red” will be used to bring to the attention of the Dominant that the
Submissive cannot tolerate any further demands. When this word is said the Domi-
nant’s action will cease completely with immediate effect.
CONCLUSION
21 We the undersigned have read and understood fully the provisions of this contract.
We freely accept the terms of this contract and have acknowledged this by our signa-
tures below.
________________________
The Dominant: Christian Grey
Date
________________________
The Submissive: Anastasia Steele
Date
APPENDIX 1
RULES
Obedience:
The Submissive will obey any instructions given by the Dominant immediately with-
out hesitation or reservation and in an expeditious manner. The Submissive will agree
to any sexual activity deemed fit and pleasurable by the Dominant excepting those
activities which are outlined in hard limits (Appendix 2). She will do so eagerly and
without hesitation.Sleep:
The Submissive will ensure she achieves a minimum of eight hours sleep a night when
she is not with the Dominant.
Food:
The Submissive will eat regularly to maintain her health and wellbeing from a pre-
scribed list of foods (Appendix 4). The Submissive will not snack between meals, with
the exception of fruit.
Clothes:
During the Term the Submissive will wear clothing only approved by the Dominant.
The Dominant will provide a clothing budget for the Submissive, which the Submis-
sive shall utilize. The Dominant shall accompany the Submissive to purchase clothing
on an ad hoc basis. If the Dominant so requires the Submissive shall during the Term
wear adornments the Dominant shall require, in the presence of the Dominant and any
other time the Dominant deems fit.
Exercise:
The Dominant shall provide the Submissive with a personal trainer four times a week
in hour-long sessions at times to be mutually agreed between the personal trainer and
the Submissive. The personal trainer will report to the Dominant on the Submissive’s
progress.
Personal Hygiene/Beauty:
The Submissive will keep herself clean and shaved and/or waxed at all times. The
Submissive will visit a beauty salon of the Dominant’s choosing at times to be decided
by the Dominant, and undergo whatever treatments the Dominant sees fit. All costs
will be met by the Dominant.
Personal Safety:
The Submissive will not drink to excess, smoke, take recreational drugs or put herself
in any unnecessary danger.
Personal Qualities:
The Submissive will not enter into any sexual relations with anyone other than the
Dominant. The Submissive will conduct herself in a respectful and modest manner at
all times. She must recognize that her behavior is a direct reflection on the Dominant.
She shall be held accountable for any misdeeds, wrongdoings and misbehavior com-
mitted when not in the presence of the Dominant.
Failure to comply with any of the above will result in immediate punishment, the na-
ture of which shall be determined by the Dominant.
APPENDIX 2
Hard Limits
No acts involving fire play
No acts involving urination or defecation and the products thereof
No acts involving needles, knives, cutting, piercing, or blood
No acts involving gynecological medical instruments
No acts involving children or animals
No acts that will leave any permanent marks on the skinNo acts involving breath control.
No activity that involves the direct contact of electric current (whether alternating or
direct), fire or flames to the body.
APPENDIX 3
Soft Limits
To be discussed and agreed between both parties:
Which of the following sexual acts are acceptable to the Submissive?
• Masturbation
• Fellatio
• Cunnilingus
• Vaginal intercourse
• Vaginal fisting
• Anal intercourse
• Anal fisting
Is swallowing semen acceptable to the Submissive?
Is the use of sex toys acceptable to the Submissive?
• Vibrators
• Dildos
• Butt Plugs
• Other
Is Bondage acceptable to the Submissive?
• Hands in front
• Hands behind back
• Ankles
• Knees
• Elbows
• Wrists to ankles
• Spreader bars
• Tied to furniture
• Blindfolding
• Gagging
• Bondage with Rope
• Bondage with Tape
• Bondage with leather cuffs
• Suspension
• Bondage with handcuffs/metal restraints
What is the Submissive’s general attitude about receiving pain? Where 1 is likes in-
tensely and 5 is dislikes intensely: 1 – 2 – 3 – 4 – 5How much pain does the submissive want to receive? Where 1 is none and 5 is severe:
1 – 2 – 3 – 4 – 5
Which of the following types of pain/punishment/discipline are acceptable to the Sub-
missive?
• Spanking
• Paddling
• Whipping
• Caning
• Biting
• Nipple clamps
• Genital clamps
• Ice
• Hot wax
• Other types/methods of pain
Holy Fuck. I can’t bring myself to even consider the food list. I swallow hard, my
mouth dry, and read it again.
My head is buzzing. How can I possibly agree to all this? And apparently it’s for my
benefit, to explore my sensuality, my limits – safely – oh please! I scoff angrily. Serve and
obey in all things. All Things! I shake my head in disbelief. Actually, doesn’t the marriage
ceremony use those words... obey? This throws me. Do couples still say that? Only three
months, is that why there have been so many? He doesn’t keep them for long? Or have
they had enough after three months? Every weekend? That’s too much. I’ll never see Kate
or whatever friends I may make at my new job – provided I get one. Perhaps I should have
one weekend a month to myself. Perhaps when I have my period, that sounds... practical.
He’s my master! To be dealt with as he pleases! Holy shit.
I shudder at the thought of being flogged or whipped. Spanking probably wouldn’t be
so bad, humiliating though. And tied up? Well he did tie my hands together. That was...
well it was hot, really hot, so perhaps that won’t be so bad. He won’t loan me to another
Dominant – damn right he won’t. That would be totally unacceptable. Why am I even
thinking about this?
I can’t look him in the eye. How weird is that? The only way I ever have any chance
to see what he’s thinking. Actually, whom am I kidding, I never know what he’s thinking,
but I like looking into his eyes. He has beautiful eyes – captivating, intelligent, deep and
dark, dark with dominant secrets. I recall his burning smoky gaze and press my thighs
together, squirming.
And I can’t touch him. Well, no surprise there. And these silly rules... No, no I can’t
do this. I put my head in my hands. This is no way to have a relationship. I need some
sleep. I’m shattered. All the physical shenanigans I’ve been engaged in over the last
twenty-four hours have been, frankly, exhausting. And mentally... oh man, this is so muchto take on board. As José would say, a real mind-fuck. Perhaps in the morning, this might
not read like a bad joke.
I scramble up and change quickly. Perhaps I should borrow Kate’s pink flannel paja-
mas. I want something cuddly and reassuring around me. I head to the bathroom in my
t-shirt and sleep shorts and brush my teeth.
I stare at myself in the bathroom mirror. You can’t seriously be considering this...
My subconscious sounds sane and rational, not her usual snarky self. My inner goddess
is jumping up and down, clapping her hands like a five-year-old. Please, let’s do this...
otherwise we’ll end up alone with lots of cats and your classic novels to keep you company.
The only man I’ve ever been attracted to, and he comes with a bloody contract, a
flogger, and a whole world of issues. Well, at least I got my way this weekend. My inner
goddess stops jumping and smiles serenely. Oh yes... she mouths, nodding at me smugly.
I flush at the memory of his hands and his mouth on me, his body inside mine. Closing
my eyes, I feel the familiar delicious pull of my muscles from deep, deep down. I want
to do that again and again. Maybe if I just sign up for the sex... would he go with that? I
suspect not.
Am I submissive? Maybe I come across that way. Maybe I misled him in the inter-
view. I’m shy, yes... but submissive? I let Kate bully me – is that the same? And those
soft limits, jeez. My mind boggles, but I’m reassured that they are up for discussion.
I wander back to my bedroom. This is too much to think about. I need a clear head – a
fresh morning approach to the problem. I put the offending documents back in my satchel.
Tomorrow... tomorrow is another day. Clambering into bed, I switch off the light and lie
staring up at the ceiling. Oh, I wish I’d never met him. My inner goddess shakes her head
at me. She and I know it’s a lie. I have never felt as alive as I do now.
I close my eyes, and I drift into a heavy sleep with occasional dreams of four-poster
beds and shackles and intense gray eyes.
Kate wakes me the next day.
“Ana, I’ve been calling you. You must have been out cold.”
My eyes reluctantly open. She’s not just up – she’s been for a run. I glance at my
alarm. It’s eight in the morning. Holy Moses, I’ve slept for a solid nine hours.
“What is it?” I mumble sleepily.
“There’s a man here with a delivery for you. You have to sign for it.”
“What?”
“Come on. It’s big. It looks interesting.” She hops from foot to foot excitedly and
bounds back into the living area. I clamber out of bed and grab my dressing gown hanging
on the back of my door. A smart young man with a ponytail is standing in our living room
clasping a large box.
“Hi,” I mumble.
“I’ll make you some tea.” Kate scuttles off to the kitchen.
“Miss Steele?”
And I immediately know whom the parcel is from.“Yes,” I answer cautiously.
“I have a package for you here, but I have to set it up and show you how to use it.”
“Really? At this time?”
“Only following orders, ma’am.” He smiles in a charming but professional he’s-not-
taking-any-crap way.
Did he just call me ma’am? Have I aged ten years overnight? If I have, it’s that con-
tract. My mouth puckers in disgust.
“Okay, what is it?”
“It’s a MacBook Pro.”
“Of course it is.” I roll my eyes .
“These aren’t available in the shops yet, ma’am, the very latest from Apple.”
How come that does not surprise me? I sigh heavily.
“Just set it up on the dining table over there.”
I wander into the kitchen to join Kate.
“What is it?” she says inquisitive, bright eyed and bushy tailed. She’s slept well too.
“It’s a laptop from Christian.”
“Why’s he sent you a laptop? You know you can use mine,” she frowns.
Not for what he has in mind.
“Oh, it’s only on loan. He wanted me to try it out.” My excuse sounds feeble. But
Kate nods her assent. Oh my... I have hoodwinked Katherine Kavanagh. A first. She
hands me my tea.
The Mac laptop is sleek and silver and rather beautiful. It has a very large screen.
Christian Grey likes scale – I think of his living area, in fact, his whole apartment.
“It’s got the latest OS and a full suite of programs, plus a one-point-five terabyte hard
drive so you’ll have plenty of room, thirty-two gigs of RAM – what are you planning to
use it for?
“Uh... email.”
“Email!” he chokes, bemused, raising his eyebrows with a slightly sick look on his
face.
“And maybe Internet research?” I shrug apologetically.
He sighs.
“Well, this has full wireless N, and I’ve set it up with your Me account details. This
baby is all ready to go, practically anywhere on the planet.” He looks longingly at it.
“Me account?”
“Your new email address. ”
I have an email address?
He points to an icon on the screen and continues to talk at me but it’s like white noise.
I haven’t got a clue what he’s saying, and in all honestly, I’m not interested. Just tell me
how to switch it on and off – I’ll figure out the rest. After all, I’ve been using Kate’s for
four years. Kate whistles, impressed when she sees it.
“This is next-generation tech.” She raises her eyebrows at me. “Most women get
flowers or maybe jewelry,” she says suggestively, trying to suppress a smile.
I scowl at her but can’t keep a straight face. We both burst into a fit of giggles, and
computer man gapes at us, bemused. He finishes up and asks me to sign the delivery note.As Kate shows him out, I sit with my cup of tea, open the email program, and sitting
there waiting for me is an email from Christian. My heart leaps into my mouth. I have an
email from Christian Grey. Nervously, I open it.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your New Computer
Date: May 22 2011 23:15
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I trust you slept well. I hope that you put this laptop to good use, as discussed.
I look forward to dinner, Wednesday.
Happy to answer any questions before then, via email, should you so desire.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I hit reply.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Your New Computer (on loan)
Date: May 23 2011 08:20
To: Christian Grey
I slept very well thank you – for some strange reason – Sir.
I understood that this computer was on loan, ergo not mine.
Ana
Almost instantaneously there is a response.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your New Computer (on loan)
Date: May 23 2011 08:22
To: Anastasia Steele
The computer is on loan. Indefinitely, Miss Steele.
I note from your tone that you have read the documentation I gave you.
Do you have any questions so far?Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I can’t help but grin.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Enquiring Minds
Date: May 23 2011 08:25
To: Christian Grey
I have many questions, but not suitable for email, and some of us have to work for a liv-
ing.
I do not want or need a computer indefinitely.
Until later, good day. Sir.
Ana
His reply again is instant, and it makes me smile.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your New Computer (again on loan)
Date: May 23 2011 08:26
To: Anastasia Steele
Laters, baby.
PS: I work for a living too.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I shut the computer down, grinning like an idiot. How can I resist playful Christian? I am
going to be late for work. Well, it is my last week – Mr. and Mrs. Clayton will probably cut
me some slack. I race into the shower, unable to shake my face-splitting grin. He emailed
me. I’m like a small, giddy child. And all the contract angst fades. As I wash my hair, I
try and think what I could possibly ask him via email. Surely it’s better to talk these things
through. Suppose someone hacked into his account? I flush at the thought. I dress quickly,
shout a hasty goodbye to Kate, and I’m off to work my last week at Clayton’s.
José phones at eleven.“Hey, are we doing coffee?” He sounds like the old José. José my friend, not a – what
did Christian call him? Suitor. Ugh.
“Sure. I’m at work. Can you make it here for say twelve?”
“See you then.”
He hangs up, and I go back to restocking the paintbrushes and thinking about Christian
Grey and his contract.
José is punctual. He comes bounding into the shop like a gamboling dark-eyed puppy.
“Ana,” he smiles his dazzling toothy all-Hispanic-American smile, and I can’t be an-
gry with him anymore.
“Hi José.” I hug him. “I’m starving. I’ll just let Mrs. Clayton know I’m going for
lunch.”
As we stroll to the local coffee shop, I slip my arm through José’s. I’m so grateful for his
– normality. Someone I know and understand.
“Hey Ana,” he murmurs. “You’ve really forgiven me?”
“José, you know I can never stay mad at you for long.”
He grins.
I can’t wait to get home. The lure of emailing Christian, and maybe I can begin my re-
search project. Kate is out somewhere, so I fire up the new laptop and open my email. Sure
enough, there’s an email from Christian sitting in the inbox. I’m practically bouncing out
of my seat with glee.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Working for a living
Date: May 23 2011 17:24
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I do hope you had a good day at work.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I hit reply.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Working for living
Date: May 23 2011 17:48To: Christian Grey
Sir... I had a very good day at work.
Thank you.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Do The Work!
Date: May 23 2011 17:50
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
Delighted you had a good day.
While you are emailing, you are not researching.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Nuisance
Date: May 23 2011 17:53
To: Christian Grey
Mr. Grey, stop emailing me, and I can start my assignment.
I’d like another A.
Ana
I hug myself.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Impatient
Date: May 23 2011 17:55
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
Stop emailing me – and do your assignment.
I’d like to award another A.
The first one was so well deserved. ;)
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.Christian Grey just sent me a winking smiley... Oh my. I fire up Google.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Internet Research
Date: May 23 2011 17:59
To: Christian Grey
Mr. Grey
What would you suggest I put into a search engine?
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Internet Research
Date: May 23 2011 18:02
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
Always start with Wikipedia.
No more emails unless you have questions. Understood?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Bossy!
Date: May 23 2011 18:04
To: Christian Grey
Yes... Sir.
You are so bossy.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: In Control
Date: May 23 2011 18:06
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia, you have no idea.
Well, maybe an inkling now.
Do the work.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.I type Submissive into Wikipedia.
Half an hour later, I feel slight queasy and frankly shocked to my core. Do I really want
this stuff in my head? Jeez – is this what he gets up to in the Red Room of Pain? I sit
staring at the screen, and part of me, a very moist and integral part of me – that I’ve only
become acquainted with very recently, is seriously turned on. Oh my, some of this stuff is
HOT. But is it for me? Holy shit... could I do this? I need space. I need to think.For the first time in my life, I voluntarily go for a run. I find my nasty, never-used sneakers,
some sweat pants, and a t-shirt. I put my hair in pigtails, blushing at the memories they
bring back, and I plug in my iPod. I can’t sit in front of that marvel of technology and look
at or read any more disturbing material. I need to expend some of this excess, enervating,
energy. Quite frankly, I have a mind to run to the Heathman hotel and just demand sex
from the control freak. But that’s five miles, and I don’t think I’ll be able to run one mile,
let alone five, and of course, he might turn me down which would be beyond humiliating.
Kate is walking from her car as I head out of the door. She nearly drops her shopping
when she sees me. Ana Steele in sneakers. I wave and don’t stop for the inquisition. I
need some serious alone time. Snow Patrol blaring in my ears, I set off into the opal and
aquamarine dusk.
I pace through the park. What am I going to do? I want him, but on his terms? I just
don’t know. Perhaps I should negotiate what I want. Go through that ridiculous contract
line by line and say what is acceptable and what isn’t. My research has told me that legally
it’s unenforceable. He must know that. I figure that it just sets up the parameters of the
relationship. It illustrates what I can expect from him and what he expects from me – my
total submission. Am I prepared to give him that? Am I even capable?
I am plagued by one question - why is he like this? Is it because he was seduced at such
a young age? I just don’t know. He’s still such a mystery.I stop beside a large spruce and put my hands on my knees, breathing hard, dragging
precious air into my lungs. Oh, this feels good, cathartic. I can feel my resolve hardening.
Yes. I need to tell him what’s okay and what isn’t. I need to email him my thoughts, and
then we can discuss these on Wednesday. I take a deep cleansing breath, then jog back to
the apartment.
Kate has been shopping, as only she can, for clothes for her holiday to Barbados.
Mainly bikinis and matching sarongs. She will look fabulous in all of them, yet she still
makes me sit and comment while she tries on each and every one. There are only so many
ways one can say – you look fabulous Kate. She has a curvy, slim figure to die for. She
doesn’t do it on purpose, I know, but I haul my sorry, perspiration clad, old t-shirt, sweat
pants, and sneakers ass into my room on the pretext of packing more boxes. Could I feel
any more inadequate? Taking the awesome free technology with me, I set the laptop up on
my desk. I email Christian.
__________________________________________________________________
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Shocked of WSUV
Date: May 23 2011 20:33
To: Christian Grey
Okay, I’ve seen enough.
It was nice knowing you.
Ana
I press send, hugging myself, laughing at my little joke. Will he find it as funny? Oh shit
– probably not. Christian Grey is not famed for his sense of humor. But I know it exists,
I’ve experienced it. Perhaps I’ve gone too far. I wait for his answer.
I wait... and wait. I glance at my alarm clock. Ten minutes have passed.
To distract myself from the anxiety that blooms in my belly, I start doing what I told
Kate I would be doing – packing up my room. I begin by cramming my books into a crate.
By nine, I’ve heard nothing. Perhaps he’s out. I pout petulantly as I plug my iPod ear buds
in, listen to Snow Patrol, and sit down at my small desk to re-read the contract and make
my comments.
I don’t know why I glance up, maybe I catch a slight movement from the corner of my
eye, I don’t know, but when I do, he’s standing in the doorway of my bedroom watching
me intently. He’s wearing his grey flannel pants and a white linen shirt, gently twirling his
car keys. I pull my ear buds out and freeze. Fuck!
“Good evening, Anastasia.” His voice is cool, his expression completely guarded and
unreadable. The capacity to speak deserts me. Damn Kate for letting him in here with no
warning. Vaguely, I’m aware that I’m still in my sweats, un-showered, yucky, and he’s just
gloriously yummy, his pants doing that hanging from the hips thing, and what’s more, he’s
here in my bedroom.
“I felt that your email warranted a reply in person,” he explains dryly.I open my mouth and then close it again, twice. The joke is on me. Never in this or any
alternative universe did I expect him to drop everything and turn up here.
“May I sit?” he asks, his eyes now dancing with humor – thank heavens – maybe he’ll
see the funny side?
I nod. The power of speech remains elusive. Christian Grey is sitting on my bed.
“I wondered what your bedroom would look like,” he says.
I glance around it, plotting an escape route, no – there’s still only the door or window.
My room is functional but cozy – sparse white wicker furniture and a white iron double bed
with a patchwork quilt, made by my mother when she was in her folksy American quilting
phase. It’s all pale blue and cream.
“It’s very serene and peaceful in here,” he murmurs. Not at the moment... not with you
here.
Finally, my medulla oblongata recalls its purpose, I breathe.
“How... ?”
He smiles at me.
“I’m still at the Heathman.”
I know that.
“Would you like a drink?” Politeness wins out over everything else I’d like to say.
“No, thank you, Anastasia.” He smiles a dazzling, crooked smile, his head cocked
slightly to one side.
Well, I might need one.
“So, it was nice knowing me?”
Holy cow, is he offended? I stare down at my fingers. How am I going to dig myself
out of this? If I tell him it was a joke, I don’t think he’ll be impressed.
“I thought you’d reply by email.” My voice is small, pathetic.
“Are you biting your lower lip deliberately?” he asks darkly.
I blink up at him, gasping, freeing my lip.
“I wasn’t aware I was biting my lip,” I murmur softly.
My heart is pounding. I can feel that pull, that delicious electricity between us charg-
ing, filling the space between us with static. He’s sitting so close to me, his eyes dark
smoky gray, his elbows resting on his knees, his legs apart. Leaning forward, he slowly
undoes one of my pigtails, his fingers freeing my hair. My breathing is shallow, and I can-
not move. I watch hypnotized as his hand moves to my second pigtail, and pulling the hair
tie, he loosens the braid with his long, skilled fingers.
“So you decided on some exercise,” he breathes, his voice soft and melodious. His
fingers gently tuck my hair behind my ear. “Why, Anastasia?” His fingers circle my ear,
and very softly, he tugs my earlobe, rhythmically. It’s so sexual.
“I needed time to think,” I whisper. I’m all rabbit/headlights, moth/flame, bird/snake...
and he knows exactly what he’s doing to me.
“Think about what, Anastasia?”
“You.”
“And you decided that it was nice knowing me? Do you mean knowing me in the
biblical sense?”
Oh shit. I flush.“I didn’t think you were familiar with the Bible.”
“I went to Sunday School, Anastasia. It taught me a great deal.”
“I don’t remember reading about nipple clamps in the Bible. Perhaps you were taught
from a modern translation.”
His lips arch with a trace of a smile, and my eyes are drawn to his beautiful sculptured
mouth.
“Well, I thought I should come and remind you how nice it was knowing me.”
Holy crap. I stare at him open mouthed, and his fingers move from my ear to my chin.
“What do you say to that, Miss Steele?”
His gray eyes blaze at me, his challenge intrinsic in his stare. His lips are parted – he’s
waiting, coiled to strike. Desire – acute, liquid and smoldering, combusts deep in my belly.
I take pre-emptive action and launch myself at him. Somehow he moves, I have no idea
how, and in the blink of an eye I’m on the bed pinned beneath him, my arms stretched out
and held above my head, his free hand clutching my face, and his mouth finds mine.
His tongue is in my mouth, claiming and possessing me, and I revel in the force he
uses. I feel him against the length of my body. He wants me, and this does strange, deli-
cious things to my insides. Not Kate in her little bikinis, not one of the fifteen, not evil
Mrs. Robinson. Me. This beautiful man wants me. My inner goddess glows so bright
she could light up Portland. He stops kissing me, and opening my eyes, I find him gazing
down at me.
“Trust me?” he breathes.
I nod, wide-eyed, my heart bouncing off my ribs, my blood thundering around my
body.
He reaches down, and from his pants pocket, he takes out his silver grey silk tie... that
silver grey woven tie that leaves small impressions of its weave on my skin. He moves so
quickly, sitting astride me as he fastens my wrists together, but this time, he ties the other
end of the tie to one of the spokes of my white iron headboard. He pulls at my binding
checking it’s secure. I’m not going anywhere. I’m tied, literally, to my bed, and I’m so
aroused.
He slides off me and stands beside the bed, staring down at me, his eyes dark with
want. His look is triumphant, mixed with relief.
“That’s better,” he murmurs and smiles a wicked, knowing smile. He bends and starts
undoing one of my sneakers. Oh no... no... my feet. No. I’ve just been running.
“No,” I protest, trying to kick him off.
He stops.
“If you struggle, I’ll tie your feet too. If you make a noise, Anastasia, I will gag you.
Keep quiet. Katherine is probably outside listening right now.”
Gag me! Kate! I shut up.
He removes my shoes and my socks efficiently and slowly peels off my sweat pants.
Oh – what panties am I wearing? He lifts me and pulls the quilt and my duvet out from
underneath me and places me back down, this time on the sheets.
“Now then.” He licks his bottom lip slowly. “You’re biting that lip, Anastasia. You
know the effect it has on me.” He places his long index finger over my mouth, a warning.Oh my. I can barely contain myself, lying helpless, watching him move gracefully
around my room, it’s a heady aphrodisiac. Slowly, almost leisurely, he removes his shoes
and socks, undoes his pants, and lifts his shirt off over his head.
“I think you’ve seen too much,” he chuckles slyly. He sits astride me again, pulls my
t-shirt up, and I think he’s going to take it off me, but he rolls it up to my neck and then
pulls it up over my head so he can see my mouth and my nose, but it covers my eyes. And
because it’s folded over – I cannot see a thing through it.
“Mmm,” he breathes appreciatively. “This just gets better and better. I’m going to get
a drink.”
Leaning down, he kisses me, his lips tender against mine, and his weight shifts off the
bed. I hear the quiet creak of the bedroom door. Get a drink. Where? Here? Portland?
Seattle? I strain to hear him. I can make out low rumblings, and I know he’s talking to
Kate – oh no... he’s practically naked. What’s she going to say? I hear a faint popping
sound. What’s that? He returns, the door creaking once more, his feet padding across the
bedroom floor, and ice tinkling against glass as it swirls in liquid. What kind of drink? He
shuts the door and shuffles around removing his pants. They drop to the floor, and I know
he’s naked. He sits astride me again.
“Are you thirsty, Anastasia?” he asks, his voice teasing
“Yes,” I breathe, because my mouth is suddenly parched. I hear the ice clink against
the glass, and he puts it down again and leans down and kisses me, pouring a delicious
crisp, liquid into my mouth as he does. It’s white wine. It’s so unexpected, hot, though it’s
chilled, and Christian’s lips are cool.
“More?” he whispers.
I nod. It tastes all the more divine because it’s been in his mouth. He leans down, and
I drink another mouthful from his lips... oh my.
“Let’s not go too far, we know your capacity for alcohol is limited, Anastasia.”
I can’t help it. I grin, and he leans down to deliver another delicious mouthful. He
shifts so he’s lying beside me, his erection at my hip. Oh, I want him inside me.
“Is this nice?” he asks, but I hear the edge in his voice.
I tense. He moves the glass again and leans down, kissing me and depositing a small
shard of ice in my mouth with a little wine. He slowly and leisurely trails chilled kisses
down the center of my body, from the base of my throat, between my breasts, down my
torso, and to my belly. He pops a fragment of ice in my navel in a pool of cool, cold wine.
It burns all the way down to the depths of my belly. Wow.
“Now you have to keep still,” he whispers. “If you move, Anastasia, you’ll get wine
all over the bed.”
My hips flex automatically.
“Oh no. If you spill the wine, I will punish you, Miss Steele.”
I groan and desperately fight the urge to tilt my hips, pulling on my restraint. Oh no...
please.
With one finger, he pulls down my bra cups in turn, my breasts pushed up, exposed and
vulnerable. Leaning down, he kisses and tugs at each of my nipples in turn with cool, cold
lips. I fight my body as it tries to arch in response.
“How nice is this?” he breathes, blowing on one of my nipples.I hear another clink of ice, and then I can feel it round my right nipple as he tugs the left
one with his lips. I moan, struggling not to move. It’s sweet, agonizing torture.
“If you spill the wine, I won’t let you come,”
“Oh... please... Christian... Sir... Please.” He’s driving me insane. I hear him smile.
The ice in my navel is melting. I am beyond warm – warm and chilled and wanting.
Wanting him, inside me. Now.
His cool fingers trail languidly across my belly. My skin is oversensitive, my hips flex
automatically, and the now warmer liquid from my navel seeps over my belly. Christian
moves quickly, lapping it up with his tongue, kissing, biting me softly, sucking.
“Oh dear, Anastasia, you moved. What am I going to do to you?”
I’m panting loudly. All I can concentrate on is his voice and his touch. Nothing else
is real. Nothing else matters, nothing else registers on my radar. His fingers slip into my
panties, and I’m rewarded with his unguarded sharp intake of air.
“Oh, baby,” he murmurs and he pushes two fingers inside me.
I gasp.
“Ready for me so soon,” he says. He moves his fingers tantalizingly slowly, in, out,
and I push against him, tilting my hips up.
“You are a greedy girl,” he scolds softly, and his thumb circles my clitoris and then
presses down.
I groan loudly as my body bucks beneath his expert fingers. He reaches up and pushes
the t-shirt over my head so I can see him as I blink in the soft light of my sidelight. I long
to touch him.
“I want to touch you,” I breathe.
“I know,” he murmurs. He leans down and kisses me, his fingers still moving rhythmi-
cally inside me, his thumb circling and pressing. His other hand scoops my hair off my
head and holds my head in place. His tongue mirrors the actions of his fingers, claim-
ing me. My legs begin to stiffen as I push against his hand. He gentles his hand, so I’m
brought back from the brink. He does this again and again. It’s so frustrating... Oh please
Christian, I scream in my head.
“This is your punishment, so close and yet so far. Is this nice?” he breathes in my ear.
I whimper, exhausted, pulling against my restraint. I’m helpless, lost in an erotic torment.
“Please,” I beg, and he finally takes pity on me.
“How shall I fuck you, Anastasia?”
Oh... my body starts to quiver. He stills again.
“Please.”
“What do you want, Anastasia?”
“You... now,” I cry.
“Shall I fuck you this way, or this way, or this way? There’s an endless choice,” he
breathes against my lips. He withdraws his hand and reaches over to the bedside table for a
foil packet. He kneels up between my legs, and very slowly he pulls my panties off, staring
down at me, his eyes gleaming. He puts on the condom. I watch fascinated, mesmerized.
“How nice is this?” he says as he strokes himself.
“I meant it as a joke,” I whimper. Please fuck me, Christian.
He raises his eyebrows as his hand moves up and down his impressive length.“A joke?” His voice is menacingly soft.
“Yes. Please, Christian,” I beseech him.
“Are you laughing now?”
“No,” I mewl.
I am just one ball of sexual, tense, need. He stares down at me for a moment, measur-
ing my need, then he grabs me suddenly and flips me over. It takes me by surprise, and
because my hands are tied, I have to support myself on my elbows. He pushes both my
knees up the bed so my behind is in the air, and he slaps me hard. Before I can react, he
plunges inside me. I cry out – from the slap and from his sudden assault, and I come in-
stantly again and again, falling apart beneath him as he continues to slam deliciously into
me. He doesn’t stop. I’m spent. I can’t take this... and he pounds on and on and on... then
I’m building again... surely not... no...
“Come on, Anastasia, again,” he growls through clenched teeth, and unbelievably, my
body responds, convulsing around him as I climax anew, calling out his name. I shatter
again into tiny fragments, and Christian stills, finally letting go, silently finding his release.
He collapses on top of me, breathing hard.
“How nice was that?” he asks through his gritted teeth.
Oh my.
I lie panting and spent on the bed, eyes closed as he slowly pulls out of me. He rises
immediately and dresses. When he’s fully clothed, he climbs back on the bed and gently
undoes his tie and pulls my t-shirt off. I flex my fingers and rub my wrists, smiling at the
woven pattern imprinted on my wrists from the tie. I re-adjust my bra as he pulls the duvet
and quilt over me. I stare up at him completely dazed, and he smirks down at me.
“That was really nice,” I whisper, smiling coyly.
“There’s that word again.”
“You don’t like that word?”
“No. It doesn’t do it for me at all.”
“Oh – I don’t know... it seems to have a very beneficial effect on you.”
“I’m a beneficial effect, now am I? Could you wound my ego any further, Miss Steele?”
“I don’t think there’s anything wrong with your ego.” But even as I say it, I don’t feel
the conviction of my words - something elusive crosses my mind, a fleeting thought, but
it’s lost before I can grasp it.
“You think?” His voice is soft. He’s lying beside me, fully clothed, his head propped
up on his elbow, and I am only wearing my bra.
“Why don’t you like to be touched?”
“I just don’t.” He reaches over and plants a soft kiss on my forehead. “So, that email
was your idea of a joke.”
I smile apologetically at him and shrug.
“I see. So you are still considering my proposition?”
“Your indecent proposal... yes I am. I have issues though.”
He grins down at me as if relieved.
“I’d be disappointed if you didn’t.”
“I was going to email them to you, but you kind of interrupted me.”
“Coitus Interruptus.”“See, I knew you had a sense of humor somewhere in there.” I smile.
“Only certain things are funny, Anastasia. I thought you were saying no, no discussion
at all.” His voice drops.
“I don’t know yet. I haven’t made up my mind. Will you collar me?”
He raises his eyebrows.
“You have been doing your research. I don’t know, Anastasia. I’ve never collared
anyone.”
Oh... should I be surprised by this? I know so little about the scene... I don’t know.
“Were you collared?” I whisper.
“Yes.”
“By Mrs. Robinson?”
“Mrs. Robinson!” he laughs loudly, freely, and he looks so young and carefree, his
head thrown back, his laughter infectious.
I grin back at him.
“I’ll tell her you said that, she’ll love it.”
“You still talk to her regularly?” I can’t keep the shock out of my voice.
“Yes.” He’s serious now.
Oh... and part of me is suddenly insanely jealous – I’m disturbed by the depth of my
feeling.
“I see.” My voice is tight. “So you have someone you can discuss your alternative
lifestyle with, but I’m not allowed.”
He frowns.
“I don’t think I’ve ever thought about it like that. Mrs. Robinson was part of that life-
style. I told you, she’s a good friend now. If you’d like, I can introduce you to one of my
former subs, you could talk to her.”
What? Is he deliberately trying to upset me?
“Is this your idea of a joke?
“No, Anastasia.” He’s bemused as he shakes his head earnestly.
“No – I’ll do this on my own, thank you very much,” I snap at him, pulling the duvet
up to my chin.
He stares at me, at sea, surprised.
“Anastasia, I... ” He’s lost for words. A first, I think. “I didn’t mean to offend you.”
“I’m not offended. I’m appalled.”
“Appalled?”
“I don’t want to talk to one of your ex-girlfriends... slave... sub... whatever you call
them.”
“Anastasia Steele – are you jealous?”
I flush, crimson.
“Are you staying?”
“I have a breakfast meeting tomorrow at the Heathman. Besides, I told you, I don’t
sleep with girlfriends, slaves, subs, or anyone. Friday and Saturday night were exceptions.
It won’t happen again.” I can hear the resolve behind his soft, husky voice.
I purse my lips at him.
“Well I’m tired now.”“Are you kicking me out?” He raises his eyebrows at me, amused and a little dismayed.
“Yes.”
“Well that’s another first.” He eyes me speculatively. “So nothing you want to discuss
now? About the contract.”
“No.” I reply petulantly.
“God, I’d like to give you a good hiding. You’d feel a lot better, and so would I.”
“You can’t say things like that... I haven’t signed anything yet.”
“A man can dream, Anastasia.” He leans over me and grasps my chin. “Wednesday?”
he murmurs, and he kisses me lightly on my lips.
“Wednesday,” I agree. “I’ll see you out. If you give me a minute.” I sit up and grab my
t-shirt, pushing him out of the way. Amused and reluctant, he gets up off the bed.
“Please pass me my sweat pants.”
He collects them from the floor and hands them to me.
“Yes, ma’am.” He’s trying unsuccessfully to hide his smile.
I narrow my eyes at him as I slip the pants on. My hair is a state, and I know I’ll have to
face the Katherine Kavanagh Inquisition after he’s gone. Grabbing a hair tie, I walk to my
bedroom door, opening it slightly checking for Kate. She is not in the living area. I think
I can hear her on the phone in her room. Christian follows me out. During the short walk
from bedroom to front door, my thoughts and feelings ebb and flow, transforming. I’m no
longer angry with him, I feel suddenly unbearably shy. I don’t want him to go. For the
first time, I’m wishing he was – normal – wanting a normal relationship that doesn’t need
a ten-page agreement, a flogger, and karabiners in his playroom ceiling.
I open the door for him and stare down at my hands. This is the first time I have ever
had sex in my home, and as sex goes, I think it was pretty damn fine. But now I feel like
a receptacle – an empty vessel to be filled at his whim. My subconscious shakes her head.
You wanted to run to the Heathman for sex – you had it express-delivered. She crosses her
arms and taps her foot with a what-are-you-complaining-about-look on her face. Christian
stops in the doorway and clasps my chin, forcing my eyes to meet his. His brow creases
slightly.
“You okay?” he asks tenderly as his thumb lightly caresses my bottom lip.
“Yes.” I reply, though in all honesty I’m just not sure. I feel a paradigm shift. I know
that if I do this thing with him, I will get hurt. He’s not capable, interested, or willing to
offer me any more... and I want more. Much more. The surge of jealousy I felt only mo-
ments ago tells me that I have deeper feelings for him than I have admitted to myself.
“Wednesday,” he confirms, and he leans forward and kisses me softly. Something
changes while he’s kissing me, his lips grow more urgent against mine, his hand moves up
from my chin and he’s holding the side of my head, his other hand on the other side. His
breathing accelerates. He deepens the kiss, leaning into me. I put my hands on his arms.
I want to run them through his hair, but I resist, knowing that he won’t like it. He leans his
forehead against mine, his eyes closed, his voice strained.
“Anastasia,” he whispers. “What are you doing to me?”
“I could say the same to you,” I whisper back.
Taking a deep breath, he kisses my forehead and leaves. He strolls purposefully down
the path towards his car as he runs his hand through his hair. Glancing up as he openshis car door, he smiles his breathtaking smile. My answering smile is weak, completely
dazzled by him, and I’m reminded once more of Icarus soaring too close to the Sun. I close
the front door as he climbs into his sporty car. I have an overwhelming urge to cry, a sad
and lonely melancholy grips and tightens round my heart. Dashing back to my bedroom,
I close the door and lean against it trying to rationalize my feelings. I can’t. Sliding to the
floor, I put my head in my hands as my tears begin to flow.
Kate knocks gently.
“Ana?” she whispers. I open the door. She takes one look at me and throws her arms
around me.
“What’s wrong? What did that creepy good-looking bastard do?”
“Oh Kate, nothing I didn’t want him to.”
She pulls me to my bed and we sit.
“You have dreadful sex hair.”
In spite of my poignant sadness, I laugh.
“It was good sex, not dreadful at all.”
Kate smiles.
“That’s better. Why are you crying? You never cry.” She retrieves my brush from the
side table, and sitting behind me, very slowly starts brushing out the knots.
“I just don’t think our relationship is going to go anywhere.” I stare down at my fingers.
“I thought you said you were going to see him on Wednesday?”
“I am, that was our original plan.”
“So, why did he turn up here today?”
“I sent him an email.”
“Asking him to drop by?”
“No, saying I didn’t want to see him anymore.”
“And he turns up? Ana, that’s genius.”
“Actually it was a joke.”
“Oh. Now I’m really confused.”
Patiently, I explain the essence of my email without giving anything away.
“So you thought he’d reply by email.”
“Yes.”
“But instead he turns up here.”
“Yes.”
“I’d say he’s completely smitten with you.”
I frown. Christian, smitten with me? Hardly. He’s just looking for a new toy – a con-
venient new toy that he can bed and do unspeakable things to. My heart tightens painfully.
This is the reality.
“He came here to fuck me, that’s all.”
“Who said romance was dead?” she whispers horrified. I’ve shocked Kate. I didn’t
think that was possible. I shrug apologetically.
“He uses sex as a weapon.”
“Fuck you into submission?” She shakes her head disapprovingly. I blink rapidly at
her, and I can feel the blush as it spreads across my face. Oh... spot on, Katherine Kava-
nagh, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist.“Ana, I don’t understand, you just let him make love to you?”
“No, Kate, we don’t make love – we fuck – Christian’s terminology. He doesn’t do
the love thing.”
“I knew there was something weird about him. He has commitment issues.”
I nod, as if in agreement. Inwardly, I pine. Oh Kate... I wish I could tell you every-
thing, everything about this strange, sad, kinky guy, and you could tell me to forget about
him. Stop me from being a fool.
“I guess it’s all a little overwhelming,” I murmur. That’s the understatement of the
year.
Because I don’t want to talk about Christian any more, I ask her about Elliot. Kather-
ine’s whole demeanor changes at the mere mention of his name, she lights up from within,
beaming at me.
“He’s coming over early Saturday to help load up.” She hugs the hairbrush, boy has
she got it bad, and I feel a familiar faint stab of envy. Kate has found herself a normal man,
and she looks so happy.
I turn and hug her.
“Oh, I meant to say. Your dad called while you were... err, occupied. Apparently Bob
has sustained some injury, so your mom and he can’t make graduation. But your dad will
be here Thursday. He wants you to call.”
“Oh... my mom never called me. Is Bob okay?”
“Yes. Call her in the morning. It’s late now.”
“Thanks, Kate. I’m okay now. I’ll call Ray in the morning too. I think I’ll just turn
in.”
She smiles, but her eyes crinkle at the corners with concern.
After she’s gone, I sit and read the contract again, making more notes as I go. When
I’ve finished, I fire up the laptop, ready to respond.
There’s an email from Christian in my inbox.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: This evening
Date: May 23 2011 23:16
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
I look forward to receiving your notes on the contract.
Until then, sleep well baby.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Issues
Date: May 24 2011 00:02
To: Christian GreyDear Mr. Grey
Here is my list of issues. I look forward to discussing them more fully at dinner on
Wednesday.
The numbers refer to clauses:
2: Not sure why this is solely for MY benefit – ie to explore MY sensuality and limits. I’m
sure I wouldn’t need a ten-page contract to do that! Surely this is for YOUR benefit.
4: As you are aware you are my only sexual partner. I don’t take drugs, and I’ve not had
any blood transfusions. I’m probably safe. What about you?
8: I can terminate at any time if I don’t think you’re sticking to the agreed limits. Okay – I
like this.
9: Obey you in all things? Accept without hesitation your discipline? We need to talk
about this.
11: One month trial period. Not three.
12: I cannot commit every weekend. I do have a life, or will have. Perhaps three out of
four?
15.2: Using my body as you see fit sexually or otherwise – please define “or otherwise.”
15.5: This whole discipline clause. I’m not sure I want to be whipped, flogged, or corpo-
rally punished. I am sure this would be in breach of clauses 2-5. And also “for any other
reason”. That’s just mean – and you told me you weren’t a sadist.
15.10: Like loaning me out to someone else would ever be an option. But I’m glad it’s
here in black and white.
15.14: The Rules. More on those later.
15.19: Touching myself without your permission. What’s the problem with this? You
know I don’t do it anyway.
15.21: Discipline – Please see clause 15.5 above.
15.22: I can’t look into your eyes? Why?
15.24: Why can’t I touch you?
Rules:
Sleep – I’ll agree to 6 hours. Food – I am not eating food from a prescribed list. The food
list goes or I do – Deal breaker. Clothes – as long as I only have to wear your clothes
when I’m with you... okay. Exercise – We agreed 3 hours, this still says 4.
Soft Limits:
Can we go through all of these? No Fisting of any kind. What is suspension? Genital
Clamps – you have got to be kidding me.
Can you please let me know the arrangements for Wednesday? I am working until 5pm
that day.
Good night.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: This evening
Date: May 24 2011 00:07
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
That’s a long list. Why are you still up?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Burning the midnight oil
Date: May 24 2011 00:10
To: Christian Grey
Sir
If you recall I was going through this list, when I was distracted and bedded by a passing
control freak.
Goodnight.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Stop Burning the midnight oil
Date: May 24 2011 00:12
To: Anastasia Steele
GO TO BED ANASTASIA.
Christian Grey
CEO & Control Freak, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh... shouty capitals! I switch off. How can he intimidate me when he’s six miles away?
I shake my head. My heart still heavy, I climb into bed and fall instantly into a deep but
troubled sleep.The following day, I call my mom when I’m home from work. It’s been a relatively peace-
ful day at the Clayton’s, allowing me far too much time to think. I’m restless, nervous
about my showdown with Mr. Control Freak tomorrow, and at the back of my mind, I’m
worried that perhaps I’ve been too negative in my response to the contract. Perhaps he’ll
call the whole thing off.
My mom is oozing contrition, desperately sorry not to make my graduation. Bob has
twisted some ligament which means he’s hobbling all over the place. Honestly, he’s as
accident-prone as I am. He’s expected to make a full recovery, but it means he’s resting
up, and my mother has to wait on him hand and sore foot.
“Ana honey, I’m so sorry,” my mom whines down the phone.
“Mom, it’s fine. Ray will be there.”
“Ana, you sound distracted – are you okay, baby?”
“Yes, Mom,” Oh if only you knew. There’s an obscenely rich guy I’ve met and he
wants some kind of strange kinky sexual relationship, in which I don’t get a say in things.
“Have you met someone?”
“No, Mom.” I am so not going there right now.
“Well, darling, I’ll be thinking of you on Thursday. I love you... you know that hon-
ey?”
I close my eyes, her precious words give me a warm glow inside.“Love you too, Mom. Say hi to Bob, and I hope he gets better fast.”
“Will do, honey. Bye.”
“Bye.”
I have strayed into my bedroom with the phone. Idly, I switch the mean machine on
and fire up the email program. There’s an email from Christian from late last night or very
early this morning, depending on your point of view. My heart rate spikes instantly, and I
hear the blood pumping in my ears. Holy crap... perhaps he’s said no – that’s it – maybe
he’s canceling dinner. The thought is so painful. I dismiss it quickly and open the email.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your Issues
Date: May 24 2011 01:27
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
Following my more thorough examination of your issues, may I bring to your attention the
definition of submissive.
submissive [s uhb - mis -iv] – adjective
1. inclined or ready to submit; unresistingly or humbly obedient: submissive servants.
2. marked by or indicating submission: a submissive reply.
Origin: 1580–90; submiss + -ive
Synonyms: 1. tractable, compliant, pliant, amenable. 2. passive, resigned, patient,
docile, tame, subdued. Antonyms: 1. rebellious, disobedient.
Please bear this in mind for our meeting on Wednesday.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
My initial feeling is one of relief. He’s willing to discuss my issues at least, and he still
wants to meet tomorrow. After some thought, I reply.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: My Issues... What about Your Issues?
Date: May 24 2011 18:29
To: Christian Grey
Sir
Please note the date of origin: 1580-90. I would respectfully remind Sir that the year is
2011. We have come a long way since then.
May I offer a definition for you to consider for our meeting:
compromise [kom-pruh-mahyz] - noun
1. a settlement of differences by mutual concessions; an agreement reached by adjust-
ment of conflicting or opposing claims, principles, etc., by reciprocal modification of de-
mands. 2. the result of such a settlement. 3. something intermediate between different
things: The split-level is a compromise between a ranch house and a multistoried house.
4. an endangering, esp. of reputation; exposure to danger, suspicion, etc.: a compro-mise of one’s integrity.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: What about My Issues?
Date: May 24 2011 18:32
To: Anastasia Steele
Good point, well made, as ever, Miss Steele. I will collect you from your apartment at
7:00 tomorrow.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: 2011 – Women can drive
Date: May 24 2011 18:40
To: Christian Grey
Sir
I have a car. I can drive.
I would prefer to meet you somewhere.
Where shall I meet you?
At your hotel at 7:00?
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Stubborn Young Women
Date: May 24 2011 18:43
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I refer to my email dated May 24, 2011 sent at 1:27 and the definition contained therein.
Do you ever think you’ll be able to do what you’re told?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Intractable Men
Date: May 24 2011 18:49
To: Christian Grey
Mr. Grey
I would like to drive.Please.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Exasperated Men
Date: May 24 2011 18:52
To: Anastasia Steele
Fine.
My hotel at 7:00.
I’ll meet you in the Marble Bar.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
He’s even grumpy by email. Doesn’t he understand that I may need to make a quick get-
away? Not that my Beetle is quick... but still – I need a means of escape.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Not So Intractable Men
Date: May 24 2011 18:55
To: Christian Grey
Thank you.
Ana x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Exasperating Women
Date: May 24 2011 18:59
To: Anastasia Steele
You’re welcome.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I call Ray, who is just about to watch the Sounders play some soccer team from Salt Lake
City, so our conversation is mercifully brief. He’s driving down on Thursday for gradua-
tion. He wants to take me out afterward for a meal. My heart swells talking to Ray, and a
huge lump knots in my throat. He has been my constant through all mom’s romantic ups
and downs. We have a special bond that I treasure. Even though he’s my stepdad, he’s
always treated me as his own, and I can’t wait to see him. It’s been too long. His quiet
fortitude is what I need now, what I miss. Maybe I can channel my inner Ray for my meet-
ing tomorrow.Kate and I concentrate on packing, sharing a bottle of cheap red wine as we do. When
I finally go to bed, having almost finished packing my room, I feel calmer. The physical
activity of boxing everything up has been a welcome distraction, and I’m tired. I want a
good night’s sleep. I snuggle into my bed and am soon asleep.
Paul is back from Princeton before he sets off for New York to start an internship with a
financing company. He follows me round the store all day asking me for a date. It’s an-
noying.
“Paul, for the hundredth time, I have a date this evening.”
“No, you don’t, you’re just saying that to avoid me. You’re always avoiding me.”
Yes... you’d think you’d take the hint.
“Paul, I never thought it was a good idea to date the boss’s brother.”
“You’re finishing here on Friday. You’re not working tomorrow.”
“And I’ll be in Seattle as of Saturday and you’ll be in New York soon. We couldn’t get
much further apart if we tried. Besides, I do have a date this evening.”
“With José?”
“No.”
“Who then?”
“Paul... oh.” My sigh is exasperated. He’s not going to let this go. “Christian Grey.” I
cannot help the annoyance in my voice. But it does the trick. Paul’s mouth falls open, and
he gapes at me, struck dumb. Humph – even his name renders people speechless.
“You have a date with Christian Grey,” he says finally, once he’s over the shock. Dis-
belief is evident in his voice.
“Yes.”
“I see.” Paul looks positively crestfallen, stunned even, and a very small part resents
that he should find this a surprise. My inner goddess does too. She makes a very vulgar
and unattractive gesture at him with her fingers.
After that, he ignores me, and at five I am out of the door, pronto.
Kate has lent me two dresses and two pairs of shoes for tonight and for graduation
tomorrow. I wish I could feel more enthused about clothes and make an extra effort, but
clothes are just not my thing. What is your thing, Anastasia? Christian’s softly spoken
question haunts me. Shaking my head and endeavoring to quell my nerves, I decide on the
plum-colored sheath dress for this evening. It’s demure and vaguely business-like – after
all, I am negotiating a contract.
I shower, shave my legs and underarms, wash my hair, and then spend a good half-hour
drying it so that it falls in soft waves to my breasts and down my back. I slip a comb in to
keep one side off my face and apply mascara and some lip-gloss. I rarely wear make-up – it
intimidates me. None of my literary heroines had to deal with make-up – maybe I’d know
more about it if they had. I slip on the plum-colored stilettos that match the dress, and I’m
ready by six-thirty.
“Well?” I ask Kate.
She grins.“Boy, you scrub up well, Ana.” She nods with approval. “You look hot.”
“Hot! I’m aiming for demure and business-like.”
“That too, but most of all, hot. The dress really suits you and your coloring. The way
it clings.” She smirks.
“Kate!” I scold.
“Just keeping it real, Ana. The whole package – looks good. Keep the dress. You’ll
have him eating out of your hand.”
My mouth presses in a hard line. Oh, you so have that the wrong way round.
“Wish me luck.”
“You need luck for a date?” Her brow furrows, puzzled.
“Yes, Kate.”
“Well then – good luck.” She hugs me, and I am out the front door.
I have to drive in my bare feet – Wanda, my sea-blue Beetle, wasn’t built to be driven
by stiletto-wearers. I pull up outside the Heathman at six-fifty-eight precisely and hand my
car keys to the valet for parking. He looks askance at my Beetle, but I ignore him. Taking
a deep breath and mentally girding my loins, I head into the hotel.
Christian is leaning casually against the bar, drinking a glass of white wine. He’s
dressed in his customary white linen shirt, black jeans, black tie, and black jacket. His hair
is as tousled as ever. I sigh. Of course he looks gorgeous. I stand for a few seconds in the
entrance of the bar, gazing at him, admiring the view. He is beyond beautiful. He glances,
nervously I think, toward the entrance and stills when he sees me. Blinking a couple of
times, he then smiles a slow, lazy, sexy smile that renders me speechless and all molten
inside. Making a supreme effort not to bite my lip, I move forward aware that I, Anastasia
Steele of Clumsyville, am in high stilettos. He walks gracefully over to meet me.
“You look stunning,” he murmurs as he leans down to briefly kiss my cheek. “A dress,
Miss Steele. I approve.” Taking my arm, he leads me to a secluded booth and signals for
the waiter.
“What would you like to drink?”
My lips quirk up in a quick, sly smile as I sit and slide into the booth – well, at least
he’s asking me.
“I’ll have what you’re having, please.” See! I can play nice and behave myself.
Amused, he orders another glass of Sancerre and slides in opposite me.
“They have an excellent wine cellar here,” he says, cocking his head to one side.
Putting his elbows on the table, he steeples his fingers in front of his beautiful mouth,
his gray eyes alive with some unreadable emotion. And there it is... that familiar pull and
charge from him, it connects somewhere deep inside me. I shift uncomfortably under his
scrutiny, my heart palpitating. I must keep my cool.
“Are you nervous?” he asks softly.
“Yes.”
He leans forward.
“Me too,” he whispers conspiratorially. My eyes shoot up to meet his. Him. Nervous.
Never. I blink at him, and he smiles his adorable lopsided smile at me. The waiter arrives
with my wine, a small dish of mixed nuts, and another of olives.
“So, how are we going to do this?” I ask. “Run through my points one by one?”“Impatient as ever, Miss Steele.”
“Well, I could ask you what you thought of the weather today?”
He smiles, and his long fingers reach down to collect an olive. He pops it in his mouth,
and my eyes linger on his mouth, that mouth, that’s been on me... all parts of me. I flush.
“I thought the weather was particularly unexceptional today,” he smirks.
“Are you smirking at me, Mr. Grey?”
“I am, Miss Steele.”
“You know this contract is legally unenforceable.”
“I am fully aware of that, Miss Steele.”
“Were you going to tell me that at any point?”
He frowns at me.
“You’d think I’d coerce you into something you don’t want to do, and then pretend that
I have a legal hold over you?”
“Well... yes.”
“You don’t think very highly of me at all, do you?”
“You haven’t answered my question.”
“Anastasia, it doesn’t matter if it’s legal or not. It represents an arrangement that I
would like to make with you – what I would like from you and what you can expect from
me. If you don’t like it, then don’t sign. If you do sign, and then decide you don’t like it,
there are enough get-out clauses so you can walk away. Even if it were legally binding, do
you think I’d drag you through the courts if you did decide to run?”
I take a long draft of my wine. My subconscious taps me hard on the shoulder. You
must keep your wits about you. Don’t drink too much.
“Relationships like this are built on honesty and trust,” he continues. “If you don’t
trust me – trust me to know how I’m affecting you, how far I can go with you, how far I
can take you – if you can’t be honest with me, then we really can’t do this.”
Oh my, we’ve cut to the chase quickly. How far he can take me. Holy shit. What does
that mean?
“So it’s quite simple, Anastasia. Do you trust me or not?” His eyes are burning, fer-
vent.
“Did you have similar discussions with um... the fifteen?”
“No.”
“Why not?”
“Because they were all established submissives. They knew what they wanted out of
a relationship with me and generally what I expected. With them, it was just a question of
fine-tuning the soft limits, details like that.”
“Is there a store you go to? Submissives R Us?”
He laughs.
“Not exactly.”
“Then how?”
“Is that what you want to discuss? Or shall we get down to the nitty-gritty? Your is-
sues, as you say.”
I swallow. Do I trust him? Is that what this all comes down to – trust? Surely that
should be a two-way thing. I remember his snit when I phoned José.“Are you hungry?” he asks, distracting me from my thoughts.
Oh no... food.
“No.”
“Have you eaten today?”
I stare at him. Honesty... Holy crap, he’s not going to like my answer.
“No.” My voice is small.
He narrows his eyes.
“You have to eat, Anastasia. We can eat down here or in my suite. What would you
prefer?”
“I think we should stay in public, on neutral ground.”
He smiles sardonically.
“Do you think that would stop me?” he says softly, a sensual warning.
My eyes widen, and I swallow again.
“I hope so.”
“Come, I have a private dining room booked. No public.” He smiles at me enigmati-
cally and climbs out of the booth, holding his hand out to me.
“Bring your wine,” he murmurs.
Placing my hand in his, I slide out and stand up beside him. He releases me, and his
hand reaches for my elbow. He leads me back through the bar and up the grand stairs to a
mezzanine floor. A young man in full Heathman livery approaches us.
“Mr. Grey, this way sir.”
We follow him through a plush seating area to an intimate dining room. Just one
secluded table. The room is small but sumptuous. Beneath a shimmering chandelier,
the table is all starched linen, crystal glasses, silver cutlery, and white rose bouquet. An
old-world, sophisticated charm pervades the wood-paneled room. The waiter pulls out my
chair, and I sit. He places my napkin in my lap. Christian sits opposite me. I peek up at
him.
“Don’t bite your lip,” he whispers.
I frown. Damn it. I don’t even know that I’m doing it.
“I’ve ordered already. I hope you don’t mind.”
Frankly, I’m relieved, I’m not sure I can make any further decisions.
“No, that’s fine,” I acquiesce.
“It’s good to know that you can be amenable. Now, where were we?”
“The nitty-gritty.” I take another large sip of wine. It really is delicious. Christian
Grey does wine well. I remember the last sip of wine he gave me, in my bed. I blush at
the intrusive thought.
“Yes, your issues.” He fishes into his inside jacket pocket and pulls out a piece of paper.
My email.
“Clause 2. Agreed. This is for the benefit of us both. I shall redraft.”
I blink at him. Holy shit... we are going to go through each of these points one at a
time. I just don’t feel so brave face to face. He looks so earnest. I steel myself with an-
other sip of my wine. Christian continues.
“My sexual health. Well, all of my previous partners have had blood tests, and I have
regular tests every six months for all the health risks you mention. All my recent tests areclear. I have never taken drugs. In fact, I’m vehemently anti-drugs. I have a strict no-
tolerance policy with regards to drugs for all my employees, and I insist on random drug
testing.”
Wow... control freakery gone mad. I blink at him shocked.
“I have never had any blood transfusions. Does that answer your question?”
I nod, impassive.
“Your next point I mentioned earlier. You can walk away any time, Anastasia. I won’t
stop you. If you go, however – that’s it. Just so you know.”
“Okay,” I answer softly. If I go, that’s it. The thought is surprisingly painful.
The waiter arrives with our first course. How can I possibly eat? Holy Moses – he’s
ordered oysters on a bed of ice.
“I hope you like oysters,” Christian’s voice is soft.
“I’ve never had one.” Ever.
“Really? Well.” He reaches for one. “All you do is tip and swallow. I think you can
manage that.” He gazes at me, and I know what he’s referring to. I blush scarlet. He grins
at me, squirts some lemon juice onto his oyster, and then tips it into his mouth.
“Hmm, delicious. Tastes of the sea,” he grins at me. “Go on,” he encourages.
“So, I don’t chew it?”
“No, Anastasia, you don’t.” His eyes are alight with humor. He looks so young like
this.
I bite my lip, and his expression changes instantly. He looks sternly at me. I reach
across and pick up my first ever oyster. Okay... here goes nothing. I squirt some lemon
juice on it and tip it up. It slips down my throat, all seawater, salt, the sharp tang of citrus,
and fleshiness... ooh. I lick my lips, and he’s watching me intently, his eyes hooded.
“Well?”
“I’ll have another,” I say dryly.
“Good girl,” he says proudly.
“Did you choose these deliberately? Aren’t they known for their aphrodisiac quali-
ties?”
“No, they are the first item on the menu. I don’t need an aphrodisiac near you. I think
you know that, and I think you react the same way near me,” he says simply. “So where
were we?” He glances at my email as I reach for another oyster.
He reacts the same way. I affect him... wow.
“Obey me in all things. Yes, I want you to do that. I need you to do that. Think of it
as role-play Anastasia.”
“But I’m worried you’ll hurt me.”
“Hurt you how?”
“Physically.” And emotionally.
“Do you really think I would do that? Go beyond any limit you can’t take?”
“You’ve said you’ve hurt someone before.”
“Yes, I have. It was a long time ago.”
“How did you hurt them?”“I suspended them from my playroom ceiling. In fact, that’s one of your questions.
Suspension – that’s what the karabiners are for in the playroom. Rope play. One of the
ropes was tied too tightly.”
I hold my hand up begging him to stop.
“I don’t need to know any more. So you won’t suspend me then?”
“Not if you really don’t want to. You can make that a hard limit.”
“Okay.”
“So obeying, do you think you can manage that?”
He stares at me, his gray eyes intense. The seconds tick by.
“I could try,” I whisper.
“Good.” He smiles. “Now term. One month instead of three is no time at all, espe-
cially if you want a weekend away from me each month. I don’t think I’ll be able to stay
away from you for that length of time. I can barely manage it now,” he pauses.
He can’t stay away from me? What?
“How about, one day over one weekend per month you get to yourself – but I get a
midweek night that week?”
“Okay.”
“And please, let’s try it for three months. If it’s not for you then, you can walk away
anytime.”
“Three months?” I’m feeling railroaded. I take another large sip of wine and treat my-
self to another oyster. I could learn to like these.
“The ownership thing, that’s just terminology and goes back to the principle of obey-
ing. It’s to get you into the right frame of mind, to understand where I’m coming from.
And I want you to know that as soon as you cross my threshold as my submissive, I will do
what I like to you. You have to accept that and willingly. That’s why you have to trust me.
I will fuck you, any time, any way, I want – anywhere I want. I will discipline you, because
you will screw up. I will train you to please me. But I know you’ve not done this before.
Initially, we’ll take it slowly, and I will help you. We’ll build up to various scenarios. I
want you to trust me, but I know I have to earn your trust, and I will. The “or otherwise”
– again it’s to help you get into the mindset, it means anything goes.”
He’s so passionate, mesmerizing. This is obviously his obsession, the way he is... I
can’t take my eyes off him. He really, really wants this. He stops talking and gazes at me.
“Still with me?” he whispers, his voice rich, warm and seductive. He takes a sip of his
wine, his penetrating stare holding mine.
The waiter comes to the door, and Christian subtly nods permitting the waiter to clear
our table.
“Would you like some more wine?”
“I have to drive.”
“Some water then?”
I nod.
“Still or sparkling?”
“Sparkling, please.”
The waiter leaves.
“You’re very quiet,” Christian whispers.“You’re very verbose.”
He smiles.
“Discipline. There’s a very fine line between pleasure and pain Anastasia. They are
two sides of the same coin, one not existing without the other. I can show you how plea-
surable pain can be. You don’t believe me now, but this is what I mean about trust. There
will be pain, but nothing that you can’t handle. Again, it comes down to trust. Do you
trust me, Ana?”
Ana!
“Yes, I do.” I respond spontaneously, not thinking... because it’s true – I do trust him.
“Well then,” he looks relieved. “The rest of this stuff is just details.”
“Important details.”
“Okay, let’s talk through those.”
My head is swimming with all his words. I should have brought Kate’s mini disc
player so I can listen back to this. There is so much information, so much to process. The
waiter re-emerges with our entrees: black cod, asparagus, and crushed potatoes with a hol-
landaise sauce. I have never felt less like food.
“I hope you like fish,” Christian says mildly.
I make a stab at my food and take a long drink of my sparkling water. I vehemently
wish it was wine.
“The rules. Let’s talk about them. The food is a deal breaker?”
“Yes.”
“Can I modify to say that you will eat at least three meals a day?”
“No.” I am so not backing down on this. No one is going to dictate to me what I eat.
How I fuck, yes, but eat... no, no way.
He purses his lips.
“I need to know that you’re not hungry.”
I frown. Why?
“You’ll have to trust me.”
He gazes at me for a moment, and he relaxes.
“Touché, Miss Steele,” he says quietly. “I concede the food and the sleep.”
“Why can’t I look at you?”
“That’s a Dom/sub thing. You’ll get used to it.”
Will I?
“Why can’t I touch you?”
“Because you can’t.”
His mouth sets in a mulish line.
“Is it because of Mrs. Robinson?”
He looks quizzically at me.
“Why would you think that?” And immediately he understands. “You think she trau-
matized me?”
I nod.
“No Anastasia. She’s not the reason. Besides, Mrs. Robinson wouldn’t take any of
that shit from me.”
Oh... but I have to. I pout.“So nothing to do with her.”
“No. And I don’t want you touching yourself, either.”
What? Ah yes, the no masturbation clause.
“Out of curiosity... why?”
“Because I want all your pleasure,” his voice is husky, but determined.
Oh... I have no answer for that. On one level it’s up there with, ‘I want to bite that lip’,
on another, it’s so selfish. I frown and take a bite of cod, trying to assess mentally what
concessions I’ve gained. The food, the sleep, I can look him in the eye. He’s going to take
it slow, and we haven’t discussed soft limits. But I’m not sure I can face that over food.
“I’ve given you a great deal to think about haven’t I?”
“Yes.”
“Do you want to go through the soft limits now too?”
“Not over dinner.”
He smiles.
“Squeamish?”
“Something like that.”
“You’ve not eaten very much.”
“I’ve had enough.”
“Three oysters, four bites of cod, and one asparagus stalk, no potatoes, no nuts, no
olives, and you’ve not eaten all day. You said I could trust you.”
Jeez. He’s kept an inventory.
“Christian, please, it’s not every day I sit through conversations like this.”
“I need you fit and healthy Anastasia.”
“I know.”
“And right now, I want to peel you out of that dress.”
I swallow. Peel me out of Kate’s dress. I feel the pull deep in my belly. Muscles that
I’m now more acquainted with clench at his words. But I can’t have this. His most potent
weapon, used against me again. He’s so good at sex – even I’ve figured this out.
“I don’t think that’s a good idea,” I murmur quietly. “We haven’t had dessert.”
“You want dessert?” he snorts.
“Yes.”
“You could be dessert,” he murmurs suggestively.
“I’m not sure I’m sweet enough.”
“Anastasia, you’re deliciously sweet. I know.”
“Christian. You use sex as a weapon. It really isn’t fair,” I whisper, staring down at my
hands, and then looking directly at him. He raises his eyebrows, surprised, and I see he’s
considering my words. He strokes his chin thoughtfully.
“You’re right. I do. In life you use what you know, Anastasia. Doesn’t change how
much I want you. Here. Now.”
How can he seduce me solely with his voice? I’m panting already – my heated blood
rushing through my veins, my nerves tingling.
“I’d like to try something,” he breathes.
I frown. He’s just given me a shit load of ideas to process and now this.“If you were my sub, you wouldn’t have to think about this. It would be easy.” His
voice is soft, seductive. “All those decisions – all the wearying thought processes behind
them. The – is this the right thing to do? Should this happen here? Can it happen now?
You wouldn’t have to worry about any of that detail. That’s what I’d do as your Dom. And
right now, I know you want me, Anastasia.”
My frown deepens. How can he tell?
“I can tell because... ”
Holy shit he’s answering my unspoken question. Is he psychic as well?
“... Your body gives you away. You’re pressing your thighs together, you’re flushed,
and your breathing has changed.”
O, this is too much.
“How do you know about my thighs?” My voice is low, disbelieving. They’re under
the table for heaven’s sake.
“I felt the tablecloth move, and it’s a calculated guess based on years of experience.
I’m right aren’t I?”
I flush and stare down at my hands. That’s what I’m hindered by in this game of se-
duction. He’s the only one who knows and understands the rules. I’m just too naïve and
inexperienced. My only sphere of reference is Kate, and she doesn’t take any shit from
men. My other references are all fictional: Elizabeth Bennett would be outraged, Jane Eyre
too frightened, and Tess would succumb, just as I have.
“I haven’t finished my cod.”
“You’d prefer cold cod to me?”
My head jerks up to glare at him, and his gray eyes burn molten silver, with compel-
ling need.
“I thought you liked me clearing my plate.”
“Right now, Miss Steele, I couldn’t give a fuck about your food.”
“Christian. You just don’t fight fair.”
“I know. I never have.”
My inner goddess frowns at me. You can do this, she coaxes – play this sex god at his
own game. Can I? Okay. What to do? My inexperience is an albatross around my neck.
Picking up a spear of asparagus, I gaze at him and bite my lip. Then very slowly put the tip
of my cold asparagus in my mouth and suck it.
Christian’s eyes widen infinitesimally, but I notice.
“Anastasia. What are you doing?”
I bite off the tip.
“Eating my asparagus.”
Christian shifts in his seat.
“I think you’re toying with me, Miss Steele.”
I feign innocence.
“I’m just finishing my food, Mr. Grey.”
The waiter chooses this moment to knock and, unbidden, enter. He glances briefly at
Christian, who frowns at him but then nods, so the waiter clears our plates. The waiter’s
arrival has broken the spell. And I grasp this precious moment of clarity. I have to go. Our
meeting will only end one way if I stay, and I need some boundaries after such an intenseconversation. As much as my body craves his touch, my mind is rebelling. I need some
distance to think about all he’s said. I still haven’t made a decision, and his sexual allure
and prowess doesn’t make it any easier.
“Would you like some dessert?” Christian asks, ever the gentleman, but his eyes still
blaze.
“No, thank you. I think I should go.” I stare down at my hands.
“Go?” He can’t hide his surprise.
The waiter leaves hastily.
“Yes.” It’s the right decision. If I stay here, in this room with him, he will fuck me. I
stand, purposefully. “We both have the graduation ceremony tomorrow.”
Christian stands automatically, revealing years of ingrained civility.
“I don’t want you to go.”
“Please... I have to.”
“Why?”
“Because you’ve given me so much to consider... and I need some distance.”
“I could make you stay,” he threatens.
“Yes, you could easily, but I don’t want you to.”
He runs his hand through his hair, regarding me carefully.
“You know, when you fell into my office to interview me, you were all yes sir, no sir.
I thought you were a natural born submissive. But quite frankly, Anastasia, I’m not sure
you have a submissive bone in your delectable body.” He moves slowly toward me as his
speaks, his voice tense.
“You may be right,” I breathe.
“I want the chance to explore the possibility that you do,” he murmurs, staring down at
me. He reaches up and caresses my face, his thumb tracing my lower lip. “I don’t know
any other way, Anastasia. This is who I am.”
“I know.”
He leans down to kiss me, but pauses before his lips touch mine, his eyes searching
mine, wanting, asking permission. I raise my lips to his, and he kisses me and because I
don’t know if I’ll ever kiss him again, I let go – my hands moving of their own accord and
twisting into his hair, pulling him to me, my mouth opening, my tongue stroking his. His
hand grasps the nape of my neck as he deepens the kiss, responding to my ardor. His other
hand slides down my back and flattens at the base of my spine as he pushes me against his
body.
“I can’t persuade you to stay?” he breathes between kisses.
“No.”
“Spend the night with me.”
“And not touch you? No.”
He groans.
“You impossible girl.” He pulls back, gazing down at me. “Why do I think you’re
telling me goodbye?”
“Because I’m leaving now.”
“That’s not what I mean, and you know it.”“Christian, I have to think about this. I don’t know if I can have the kind of relation-
ship you want.”
He closes his eyes and presses his forehead against mine, giving us both the opportu-
nity to slow our breathing. After a moment, he kisses my forehead, inhales deeply, his nose
in my hair, and then he releases me, stepping back.
“As you wish, Miss Steele,” he says, his face impassive. “I’ll escort you to the lobby.”
He holds out his hand. Leaning down, I grab my purse and place my hand in his. Holy
crap, this could be it. I follow him meekly down the grand stairs and into the lobby, my
scalp prickling, my blood pumping. This could be the last goodbye if I decide to say no.
My heart contracts painfully in my chest. What a turnaround. What a difference a moment
of clarity can make to a girl.
“Do you have your valet ticket?”
I fish into my clutch purse and hand him the ticket, which he gives to the doorman. I
peek up at him as we stand waiting.
“Thank you for dinner,” I murmur.
“It’s a pleasure as always, Miss Steele,” he says politely, though he looks deep in
thought, completely distracted.
As I peer up at him, I commit his beautiful profile to memory. The idea that I might not
see him again haunts me, unwelcome and too painful to contemplate. He turns suddenly,
staring down at me, his expression intense.
“You’re moving this weekend to Seattle. If you make the right decision, can I see you
on Sunday?” He sounds hesitant.
“We’ll see. Maybe,” I breathe. Momentarily, he looks relieved, and then he frowns.
“It’s cooler now, don’t you have a jacket?”
“No.”
He shakes his head in irritation and takes off his jacket.
“Here. I don’t want you catching cold.”
I blink up at him as he holds it open, and as I hold my arms out behind me, I’m re-
minded of the time in his office when he slipped my coat onto my shoulders – the first time
I met him – and the effect he had on me then. Nothing’s changed, in fact, it’s more intense.
His jacket is warm, far too big, and it smells of him. Oh my... delicious.
My car pulls up outside. Christian’s mouth drops open.
“That’s what you drive?” He’s appalled. Taking my hand, he leads me outside. The
valet jumps out and hands me my keys, and Christian coolly palms him some money.
“Is this roadworthy?” He’s glaring at me now.
“Yes.”
“Will it make it to Seattle?”
“Yes. She will.”
“Safely?”
“Yes,” I snap, exasperated. “Okay she’s old. But she’s mine, and she’s roadworthy.
My stepdad bought it for me.”
“Oh, Anastasia, I think we can do better than this.”
“What do you mean?” Realization dawns. “You are not buying me a car.”
He glowers at me, his jaw tense.“We’ll see,” he says tightly.
He grimaces as he opens the driver’s door and helps me in. I take my shoes off and roll
down the window. He’s gazing at me, his expression unfathomable, eyes dark.
“Drive safely,” he says quietly.
“Goodbye, Christian.” My voice is hoarse from unbidden, unshed tears – jeez I’m not
going to cry. I give him a small smile.
As I drive away, my chest constricts, my tears start to fall, and I choke back a sob.
Soon tears are streaming down my face, and I really don’t understand why I’m crying. I
was holding my own. He explained everything. He was clear. He wants me, but the truth
is, I need more. I need him to want me like I want and need him, and deep down I know
that’s not possible. I am just overwhelmed.
I don’t even know how to categorize him. If I do this thing... will he be my boyfriend?
Will I be able to introduce him to my friends? Go out to bars, the cinema, bowling even,
with him? The truth is, I don’t think I will. He won’t let me touch him and he won’t let me
sleep with him. I know I’ve not had these things in my past, but I want them in my future.
And that’s not the future he envisages.
What if I do say yes, and in three months’ time he says no, he’s had enough of trying
to mold me into something I’m not. How will I feel? I’ll have emotionally invested three
months, doing things that I’m not sure I want to do. And if he then says no, agreement over,
how could I cope with that level of rejection? Perhaps it’s best to back away now with what
self-esteem I have reasonably intact.
But the thought of not seeing him again is agonizing. How has he gotten under my
skin so quickly? It can’t just be the sex... can it? I dash the tears from my eyes. I don’t
want to examine my feelings for him. I’m frightened what I’ll uncover if I do. What am
I going to do?
I park up outside our duplex. No lights on. Kate must be out. I’m relieved. I don’t
want her to catch me crying again. As I undress, I wake up the mean machine and sitting
in my inbox is a message from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Tonight
Date: May 25 2011 22:01
To: Anastasia Steele
I don’t understand why you ran this evening. I sincerely hope I answered all your ques-
tions to your satisfaction. I know I have given you a great deal to contemplate, and I
fervently hope that you will give my proposal your serious consideration. I really want to
make this work. We will take it slow.
Trust me.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.His email makes me weep more. I am not a merger. I am not an acquisition. Reading this,
I might as well be. I don’t reply. I just don’t know what to say to him. I fumble into my
PJs, and wrapping his jacket around me. I climb into bed. As I lie staring into the darkness,
I think of all the times he warned me to stay away.
‘Anastasia, you should steer clear of me. I’m not the man for you.’
‘I don’t do the girlfriend thing.’
‘I’m not a hearts and flowers kind of guy.’
‘I don’t make love.’‘This is all I know.’
And as I weep into my pillow silently, it’s this last idea I cling to. This is all I know, too.
Perhaps together we can chart a new course.Christian is standing over me grasping a plaited, leather riding-crop. He’s wearing old,
faded, ripped Levis and that’s all. He flicks the crop slowly into his palm as he gazes down
at me. He’s smiling, triumphant. I cannot move. I am naked and shackled, spread-eagled
on a large four-poster bed. Reaching forward, he trails the tip of the crop from my forehead
down the length of my nose, so I can smell the leather, and over my parted, panting lips.
He pushes the tip into my mouth so I can taste the smooth, rich leather.
“Suck,” he commands his voice soft. My mouth closes over the tip as I obey.
“Enough,” he snaps.
I’m panting once more as he tugs the crop out of my mouth, trails it down and under
my chin, on down my neck to the hollow at the base of my throat. He swirls it slowly there
and then continues to drag the tip down my body, along my sternum, between my breasts,
over my torso down to my navel. I’m panting, squirming, pulling against my restraints that
are biting into my wrists and my ankles. He swirls the tip around my navel then continues
to trail the leather tip south, through my pubic hair to my clitoris. He flicks the crop and it
hits my sweet spot with a sharp slap, and I come, gloriously, shouting my release.
Abruptly, I wake, gasping for breath, covered in sweat and feeling the aftershocks of
my orgasm. Holy hell. I’m completely disorientated. What the hell just happened? I’m
in my bedroom alone. How? Why? I sit bolt upright, shocked... wow. It’s morning. I
glance at my alarm clock – eight o’clock. I put my head in my hands. I didn’t know Icould dream sex. Was it something I ate? Perhaps the oysters and my Internet research
manifesting itself in my first wet dream. It’s bewildering. I had no idea that I could orgasm
in my sleep.
Kate is skipping around the kitchen when I stagger in.
“Ana, are you okay? You look odd. Is that Christian’s jacket you’re wearing?”
“I’m fine.” Damn, should have checked in the mirror. I avoid her piercing green eyes.
I’m still reeling from my morning’s event. “Yes, this is Christian’s jacket.”
She frowns.
“Did you sleep?”
“Not very well.”
I head for the kettle. I need tea.
“How was dinner?”
So it begins.
“We had oysters. Followed by cod, so I’d say it was fishy.”
“Ugh... I hate oysters, and I don’t want to know about the food. How was Christian?
What did you talk about?”
“He was attentive,” I pause.
What can I say? His HIV status is clear, he’s heavily into role-play, wants me to obey
his every command, he hurt someone he tied to his bedroom ceiling, and he wanted to
fuck me in the private dining room. Would that be a good summary? I try desperately to
remember something from my encounter with Christian that I can discuss with Kate.
“He doesn’t approve of Wanda.”
“Who does, Ana? That’s old news. Why are you being so coy? Give it up, girlfriend.”
“Oh, Kate, we talked about lots things. You know – how fussy he is about food. Inci-
dentally, he liked your dress.” The kettle has boiled, so I make myself some tea. “Do you
want tea? Would you like me to hear your speech for today?”
“Yes, please. I worked on it last night over at Lilah’s. I’ll go fetch it. And yes, I’d love
some tea.” Kate races out of the kitchen.
Phew, Katherine Kavanagh sidetracked. I slice a bagel and pop it into the toaster. I
flush remembering my very vivid dream. What on earth was that about?
Last night I found it hard to sleep. My head was buzzing with various options. I am
so confused. Christian’s idea of a relationship is more like a job offer. It has set hours, a
job description, and a rather harsh grievance procedure. It’s not how I envisaged my first
romance – but, of course, Christian doesn’t do romance. If I tell him I want more, he may
say no... and I could jeopardize what he has offered. And this is what concerns me most,
because I don’t want to lose him. But I’m not sure I have the stomach to be his submissive
– deep down, it’s the canes and whips that put me off. I’m a physical coward, and I will go
a long way to avoid pain. I think of my dream... is that what it would be like? My inner
goddess jumps up and down with cheerleading pom-poms shouting yes at me.
Kate comes back into the kitchen with her laptop. I concentrate on my bagel and listen
patiently as she runs through her Valedictorian speech.I am dressed and ready when Ray arrives. I open the front door, and he’s standing on the
porch in his ill-fitting suit. A warm surge of gratitude and love for this uncomplicated man
streaks through me, and I throw my arms around him in an uncharacteristic display of af-
fection. He’s taken-aback, bemused.
“Hey, Annie, I’m pleased to see you too,” he mutters as he hugs me. Setting me back,
his hands on my shoulders, he looks me up and down, his brow furrowed. “You okay, kid?”
“Of course, Dad, can’t a girl be pleased to see her old man?”
He smiles, his dark eyes crinkling at the corners, and follows me into the living area.
“You look good,” he says.
“This is Kate’s dress.” I glance down at the grey chiffon halter neck dress.
He frowns.
“Where is Kate?”
“She’s gone to campus. She’s giving a speech, so she has to be early.”
“Should we head on over?”
“Dad, we have half an hour. Would you like some tea? And you can tell me how ev-
eryone in Montesano is getting along. How was the drive down?”
Ray pulls his car into the campus parking lot, and we follow the stream of humanity dotted
with ubiquitous black and red gowns, heading toward the sports auditorium.
“Good luck, Annie. You seem awfully nervous, do you have to do anything?”
Holy crap... why has Ray picked today to be so observant?
“No, Dad. It’s a big day.” And I’m going to see him.
“Yeah, my baby girl has gotten a degree. I’m proud of you, Annie.”
“Aw... thanks Ray.” Oh I love this man.
The sports auditorium is crowded. Ray has gone to sit with the other parents and
well-wishers in the raked seating, while I make my way to my seat. I’m wearing my black
gown and my cap, and I feel protected by them, anonymous. There is no one on the stage
yet, but I can’t seem to steady my nerves. My heart is pounding, and my breathing is shal-
low. He’s here, somewhere. I wonder if Kate is talking to him, interrogating him maybe.
I make my way to my seat amongst fellow students whose surnames also begin with S. I
am in the second row, affording me yet more anonymity. I glance behind me and spot Ray
sat up high in the bleachers. I give him a wave. He self-consciously gives me a half-wave,
half-salute back. I sit and wait.
The auditorium fills quickly, and the buzz of excited voices gets louder and louder. The
row of seats in front fills. On either side of me, I am joined by two girls whom I don’t know
from a different faculty. They’re obviously close friends and talk across me excitedly.
At eleven precisely, the Chancellor appears from behind the stage, followed by the
three Vice Chancellors, and then the senior professors, all decked out in their black and red
regalia. We stand and applaud our teaching staff. Some Professors nod and wave, others
look bored. Professor Collins, my tutor and my favorite teacher, looks like he’s just fallen
out of bed, as usual. Last on to the stage are Kate and Christian. Christian stands out in
his bespoke gray suit, copper highlights glinting in his hair under the auditorium lights. He
looks so serious and self-contained. As he sits, he undoes his single-breasted jacket, and Iglimpse his tie. Holy shit... that tie! I rub my wrists reflexively. I cannot take my eyes off
him – his beauty as distracting as ever – and he’s wearing that tie, on purpose no doubt. I
can feel my mouth press into a hard line. The audience sits down and the applause ceases.
“Look at him!” One of the girls beside me breathes enthusiastically to her friend.
“He’s hot.”
I stiffen. I’m sure they’re not talking about Professor Collins.
“Must be Christian Grey.”
“Is he single?”
I bristle.
“I don’t think so,” I murmur.
“Oh.” Both girls look at me in surprise.
“I think he’s gay,” I mutter.
“What a shame,” one of the girls groans.
As the Chancellor gets to his feet and kicks off the proceedings with his speech, I
watch Christian subtly scanning the hall. I sink into my seat, hunching my shoulders,
trying to make myself as inconspicuous as possible. I fail miserably as a second later his
gray eyes find mine. He stares at me, his face impassive, completely inscrutable. I squirm
uncomfortably, hypnotized by his glare as I feel a slow flush spread across my face. Unbid-
den, I recall my dream from this morning, and the muscles in my belly do the delectable
clench thing. I inhale sharply. I can see the shadow of a smile cross his lips, but it’s fleet-
ing. He briefly closes his eyes, and on opening them, resumes his indifferent expression.
Following a swift glance up at the Chancellor, he stares ahead, focusing on the WSUV em-
blem hung above the entrance. He doesn’t turn his eyes toward me again. The Chancellor
drones on, and Christian still doesn’t look at me, he just stares fixedly ahead.
Why won’t he look at me? Perhaps he’s changed his mind? A wave of unease washes
over me. Perhaps walking out on him last night was the end for him too. He’s bored of
waiting for me to make up my mind. Oh no, I could have completely blown it. I remember
his email last night. Maybe he’s mad that I haven’t replied.
Suddenly, the room erupts into applause as Miss Katherine Kavanagh has taken the
stage. The Chancellor sits, and Kate tosses her lovely long hair behind her as she places
her papers on the lectern. She takes her time, not intimidated by a thousand people gawp-
ing at her. She smiles when she’s ready, looks up at the captivated throng, and launches
eloquently into her speech. She’s so composed and funny, the girls beside me erupt on cue
at her first joke. Oh, Katherine Kavanagh, you can deliver a good line. I feel so proud of
her at that moment, my errant thoughts of Christian are pushed to one side. Even though
I have heard her speech before, I listen carefully. She commands the room and takes her
audience with her.
Her theme is What Next After College? Oh, what next indeed. Christian is watching
Kate, his eyebrows slightly raised – in surprise, I think. Yes, it could have been Kate that
went to interview him. And it could have been Kate that he was now making indecent
proposals to. Beautiful Kate and beautiful Christian, together. I could be like the two girls
beside me, admiring him from afar. I know Kate wouldn’t have given him the time of day.
What did she call him the other day? Creepy. The thought of a confrontation between Kateand Christian makes me uncomfortable. I have to say I don’t know which of them I would
put my money on.
Kate concludes her speech with a flourish, and spontaneously everyone stands, ap-
plauding and cheering, her first standing ovation. I beam at her and cheer, and she grins
back at me. Good job, Kate. She sits, as does the audience, and the Chancellor rises and in-
troduces Christian... holy shit, Christian’s going to give a speech. The Chancellor touches
briefly on Christian’s achievements: CEO of his own extraordinarily successful company,
a real self-made man.
“And also a major benefactor to our University, please welcome, Mr. Christian Grey.”
The Chancellor pumps Christian’s hand, and there is a swell of polite applause. My
heart’s in my throat. He approaches the lectern and surveys the hall. He looks so confident
standing in front of us all, as Kate did before him. The two girls beside me lean in, enrap-
tured. In fact, I think most of the female members of the audience inch closer and a few of
the men. He begins, his voice soft, measured, and mesmerizing.
“I’m profoundly grateful and touched by the great compliment accorded to me by the
authorities of WSU today. It offers me a rare opportunity to talk about the impressive work
of the environmental science department here at the University. Our aim is to develop via-
ble and ecologically sustainable methods of farming for third world countries; our ultimate
goal is to help eradicate hunger and poverty across the globe. Over a billion people, mainly
in Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and Latin America, live in abject poverty. Agricultural
dysfunction is rife within these parts of the world and the result is ecological and social
destruction. I have known what it’s like to be profoundly hungry. This is a very personal
journey for me... ”
My jaw falls to the floor. What? Christian was hungry once. Holy crap. Well, that ex-
plains a great deal. And I recall the interview; he really does want to feed the world. I des-
perately rack my brains to remember what Kate had written in her article. Adopted at age
four, I think. I can’t imagine that Grace starved him, so it must have been before then, as
a little boy. I swallow, my heart constricting at the thought of a hungry, gray-eyed toddler.
Oh no. What kind of life did he have before the Greys got hold of him and rescued him?
I’m seized by a sense of raw outrage, poor, fucked-up, kinky, philanthropic Christian –
though I’m sure he wouldn’t see himself this way and would repel any thoughts of sympa-
thy or pity. Abruptly, everyone bursts into applause and stands. I follow, though I haven’t
heard half his speech. He’s doing all of these good works, running a huge company, and
chasing me at the same time. It’s overwhelming. I remember the brief snippets of conver-
sations he’s had about Darfur... it all falls into place. Food.
He smiles briefly at the warm applause – even Kate is clapping, then he resumes his
seat. He doesn’t look my way, and I’m off-kilter trying to assimilate this new information
about him.
One of the Vice Chancellors rises, and we begin the long, tedious process of collecting
our degrees. There are over four hundred to be given out, and it takes just over an hour
before I hear my name. I make my way up to the stage between the two giggling girls.
Christian gazes down at me, his gaze warm but guarded.
“Congratulations, Miss Steele,” he says as he shakes my hand, squeezing it gently. I
feel the charge of his flesh on mine. “Do you have a problem with your laptop?”I frown as he hands me my degree.
“No.”
“Then you are ignoring my emails?”
“I only saw the mergers and acquisitions one.”
He looks quizzically at me.
“Later,” he says, and I have to move on because I’m holding up the line.
I go back to my seat. Emails? He must have sent another. What did it say?
The ceremony takes another hour to conclude. It’s interminable. Finally, the Chan-
cellor leads the faculty members off the stage to yet more rousing applause, preceded by
Christian and Kate. Christian does not glance at me, even though I’m willing him to do it.
My inner goddess is not pleased.
As I stand and wait for our row to disperse, Kate calls to me. She’s heading my way
from behind the stage.
“Christian wants to talk to you,” she shouts. The two girls who are now standing be-
side me turn and gape at me.
“He’s sent me out here,” she continues.
Oh...
“Your speech was great, Kate.”
“It was, wasn’t it?” she beams. “Are you coming? He can be very insistent.” She rolls
her eyes, and I grin.
“You have no idea. I can’t leave Ray for long.” I glance up at Ray and hold my fingers
up indicating five minutes. He nods, giving me an okay sign, and I follow Kate into the
corridor behind the stage. Christian is talking to the Chancellor and two of the teaching
staff. He looks up when he sees me.
“Excuse me, gentlemen,” I hear him murmur. He comes toward me and smiles briefly
at Kate.
“Thank you,” he says, and before she can reply, he takes my elbow and steers me into
what looks like a men’s locker room. He checks to see if it’s empty, and then he locks the
door.
Holy shit, what does he have in mind? I blink up at him as he turns on me.
“Why haven’t you emailed me? Or texted me back?” He glares. I’m nonplussed.
“I haven’t looked at my computer today, or my phone.” Crap, has he been trying to
call? I try my distraction technique that’s so effective on Kate. “That was a great speech.”
“Thank you.”
“Explains your food issues to me.”
He runs a hand through his hair, exasperated.
“Anastasia, I don’t want to go there at the moment.” He closes his eyes, looking pained.
“I’ve been worried about you.”
“Worried, why?”
“Because you went home in that deathtrap you call a car.”
“What? It’s not a deathtrap. It’s fine. José regularly services it for me.”
“José, the photographer?” Christian’s eyes narrow, his face frosting. Oh Crap.
“Yes, the Beetle used to belong to his mother.”
“Yes, and probably her mother and her mother before her. It’s not safe.”“I’ve been driving it for over three years. I’m sorry you were worried. Why didn’t you
call?” Jeez, he’s completely over-reacting.
He takes a deep breath.
“Anastasia, I need an answer from you. This waiting around is driving me crazy.”
“Christian, I... look, I’ve left my stepdad on his own.”
“Tomorrow. I want an answer by tomorrow.”
“Okay. Tomorrow, I’ll tell you then.” I blink at him.
He steps back, regarding me coolly, and his shoulders relax.
“Are you staying for drinks?” he asks.
“I don’t know what Ray wants to do.”
“Your stepfather? I’d like to meet him.”
Oh no... why?
“I’m not sure that’s a good idea.”
Christian unlocks the door, his mouth in a grim line.
“Are you ashamed of me?”
“No!” It’s my turn to sound exasperated. “Introduce you to my dad as what? ‘This is
the man who deflowered me and wants us to start a BDSM relationship’. You’re not wear-
ing running shoes.”
Christian glares down at me, and then his lips twitch up in a smile. And in spite of the
fact I’m mad at him, my face is unwillingly pulled into an answering grin.
“Just so you know, I can run quite fast. Just tell him I’m your friend, Anastasia.”
He opens the door, and I head out. My mind is whirling. The Chancellor, the three
Vice Chancellors, four professors, and Kate stare at me as I walk hastily past them. Holy
crap. Leaving Christian with the faculty I go in search of Ray.
Tell him I’m your friend. Friend with benefits, my subconscious scowls. I know, I
know. I shake the unpleasant thought away. How will I introduce him to Ray? The hall is
still at least half full, and Ray has not moved from his spot. He sees me, waves, and makes
his way down.
“Hey, Annie. Congratulations.” He puts his arm around me.
“Would you like to come and have a drink in the marquee?”
“Sure. It’s your day. Lead the way.”
“We don’t have to if you don’t want to.” Please say no...
“Annie, I’ve just sat for two and half hours listening to all kinds of jabbering. I need
a drink.”
I put my arm through his, and we stroll out with the throng into the warmth of the early
afternoon. We pass the line for the official photographer.
“Oh, that reminds me.” Ray drags a digital camera out of his pocket. “One for the
album, Annie.” I roll my eyes at him as he snaps a picture of me.
“Can I take the cap and gown off now? I feel kind of dorky.”
You look kinda dorky... my subconscious is at her snarky best. So are you going to
introduce Ray to the man you’re fucking? She is glaring at me over her wing-shaped spec-
tacles. He’d be so proud. God, I hate her sometimes.The marquee is immense, and crowded – students, parents, teachers, and friends, all
chattering happily. Ray hands me a glass of champagne or cheap fizzy wine, I suspect. It’s
not chilled, and it tastes sweet. My thoughts turn to Christian... he won’t like this.
“Ana!” I turn, and Ethan Kavanagh scoops me into his arms. He twirls me around,
without spilling my wine, some feat.
“Congratulations!” He beams down at me, green eyes twinkling.
What a surprise. His dirty blonde hair tousled and sexy-looking. He’s as beautiful as
Kate. The family resemblance is striking.
“Wow – Ethan! How lovely to see you. Dad, this is Ethan, Kate’s brother. Ethan, this
is my dad, Ray Steele.” They shake hands, my dad coolly assessing Mr. Kavanagh.
“When did you get back from Europe?” I ask.
“I’ve been back for a week, but I wanted to surprise my little sister,” he says conspira-
torially.
“That’s so sweet.” I grin up at him.
“She is Valedictorian, couldn’t miss that.” He looks immensely proud of his sister.
“She gave a great speech.”
“That she did,” Ray agrees.
Ethan has his arm around my waist when I look up into the frosty gray eyes of Chris-
tian Grey. Kate is beside him.
“Hello, Ray,” Kate kisses Ray on both cheeks, making him blush. “Have you met
Ana’s boyfriend? Christian Grey.”
Holy shit... Kate! Fuck! All the blood drains from my face.
“Mr. Steele, it’s a pleasure to meet you.” Christian says smoothly, warmly, completely
unflustered by Kate’s introduction. He holds out his hand, which, all credit to Ray, Ray
takes, not showing a hint of the drop-dead surprise he’s just had thrust upon him.
Thank you very much, Katherine Kavanagh, I fume. I think my subconscious has
fainted.
“Mr. Grey,” Ray murmurs, his expression indecipherable except perhaps for the slight
widening of his big brown eyes. They slide over my face with a when-were-you-going-to-
give-me-this-news look. I bite my lip.
“And this is my brother, Ethan Kavanagh.” says Kate to Christian.
Christian turns his arctic glare on Ethan, who still has one arm around me.
“Mr. Kavanagh.”
They shake hands. Christian holds his hand out to me.
“Ana, baby,” he murmurs, and I nearly expire at the endearment.
I walk out of Ethan’s grasp, while Christian smiles icily at him, and I take my place at
his side. Kate grins at me. She knows exactly what she’s doing, the vixen!
“Ethan, Mom and Dad wanted a word.” Kate drags Ethan away.
“So how long have you kids known each other?” Ray looks impassively from Christian
to me.
The power of speech has deserted me. I want the ground to swallow me up. Christian
puts his arm around me, his thumb skimming my naked back in a caress, before his hand
clasps my shoulder.“Couple of weeks or so now,” he says smoothly. “We met when Anastasia came to
interview me for the student magazine.”
“Didn’t know you worked on the student magazine, Ana.” Ray’s voice is a quiet ad-
monishment, revealing his irritation. Shit.
“Kate was ill,” I murmur. It’s all I can manage.
“Fine speech you gave, Mr. Grey.”
“Thank you, sir. I understand that you’re a keen fisherman.”
Ray raises his eyebrows and smiles – a rare, genuine, bona fide Ray Steele smile – and
off they go, talking fish. In fact, I soon feel surplus to requirements. He’s charming the
pants off my dad... like he did you, my subconscious snaps at me. His power knows no
bounds. I excuse myself to go and find Kate.
She’s talking to her parents, who are delightful as ever and greet me warmly. We ex-
change brief pleasantries, mostly about their up and coming holiday to Barbados and about
our move.
“Kate, how could you out me to Ray?” I hiss at the first opportunity we won’t be over-
heard.
“Because I knew you never would, and I want to help with Christian’s commitment
issues.” Kate smiles at me sweetly.
I scowl. It’s me that won’t commit to him, silly!
“He seems trés cool about it, Ana. Don’t sweat it. Look at him now – Christian cannot
take his eyes off you.” I glance up, and both Ray and Christian are looking at me. “He’s
been watching you like a hawk.”
“I’d better go rescue Ray or Christian. I don’t know which. You haven’t heard the last
of this, Katherine Kavanagh!” I glare at her.
“Ana, I did you a favor,” she calls after me.
“Hi.” I smile at both of them on my return.
They seem okay. Christian is enjoying some private joke, and my dad looks unbeliev-
ably relaxed given he’s in a social situation. What have they been discussing apart from
fish?
“Ana, where are the restrooms?”
“Back out front of the marquee and to the left.”
“See you in a moment. You kids enjoy yourselves.”
Ray heads out. I glance nervously up at Christian. We pause briefly as a photographer
takes a picture of both of us.
“Thank you, Mr. Grey.” The photographer scurries off. I blink from the flash.
“So you’ve charmed my father as well?”
“As well?” Christian’s gray eyes burn, and he raises a questioning eyebrow. I flush.
He lifts his hand and traces my cheek with his fingers.
“Oh, I wish I knew what you were thinking, Anastasia,” he whispers darkly, cupping
my chin and raising my head so that we gaze intently into each other’s eyes.
My breath hitches. How can he have this effect on me, even in this crowded tent?
“Right now, I’m thinking, nice tie,” I breathe.
He chuckles.
“It’s recently become my favorite.”I blush scarlet.
“You look lovely, Anastasia, this halter-neck dress suits you, and I get to stroke your
back, feel your beautiful skin.”
Suddenly, it’s like we’re on our own in the room. Just the two of us, my whole body
has come alive, every nerve ending singing softly, that electricity pulling me to him, charg-
ing between us.
“You know it’s going to be good, don’t you, baby?” he whispers. I close my eyes as
my insides uncoil and melt.
“But I want more,” I whisper.
“More?” he looks down at me puzzled, his eyes darkening. I nod and swallow. Now
he knows.
“More,” he says again softly. Testing the word – a small, simple word, but so full of
promise. His thumb traces my lower lip. “You want hearts and flowers.”
I nod again. He blinks down at me, and I watch his internal struggle played out in his
eyes.
“Anastasia.” His voice is soft. “It’s not something I know.”
“Me neither.”
He smiles slightly.
“You don’t know much,” he murmurs.
“You know all the wrong things.”
“Wrong? Not to me.” He shakes his head. He looks so sincere. “Try it,” he whispers.
A challenge, daring me, and he cocks his head to one side and smiles his crooked, dazzling
smile.
I gasp, and I’m Eve in the Garden of Eden, and he’s the serpent, and I cannot resist.
“Okay,” I whisper.
“What?” I have his full, undivided attention. I swallow.
“Okay. I’ll try.”
“You’re agreeing?” His disbelief is evident.
“Subject to the soft limits, yes. I’ll try.” My voice is so small. Christian closes his eyes
and pulls me into an embrace.
“Jesus, Ana, you’re so unexpected. You take my breath away.”
He steps back, and suddenly Ray’s returned, and the volume in the marquee gradually
rises and fills my ears. We are not alone. Holy shit, I’ve just agreed to be his sub. Christian
smiles at Ray, and his eyes are dancing with joy.
“Annie, should we get some lunch?”
“Okay.” I blink up at Ray, trying to find my equilibrium. What have you done? My
subconscious screams at me. My inner goddess is doing back flips in a routine worthy of
a Russian Olympic gymnast.
“Would you like to join us, Christian?” Ray asks.
Christian! I stare up at him, imploring him to refuse. I need space to think... what the
fuck have I done?
“Thank you, Mr. Steele, but I have plans. It’s been great to meet you, sir.”
“Likewise,” Ray responds. “Look after my baby girl.”
“Oh, I fully intend to, Mr. Steele.”They shake hands. I feel sick. Ray has no idea how Christian intends to look after
me. Christian takes my hand and raises it to his lips and kisses my knuckles tenderly, his
scorching eyes intent on mine.
“Later, Miss Steele,” he breathes, his voice full of promise.
My belly curls at the thought... oh my. Hang on... later?
Ray takes my elbow and leads me toward the entrance to the tent.
“Seems a solid young man. Well-off too. You could do a lot worse, Annie. Though
why I had to hear about him from Katherine,” he scolds.
I shrug apologetically.
“Well, any man who likes and knows his fly-fishing is okay with me.”
Holy cow – Ray approves. If only he knew.
Ray drops me back at the house at dusk.
“Call your mom,” he says.
“I will. Thanks for coming, Dad.”
“Wouldn’t have missed it for the world, Annie. You make me so proud.”
Oh no. I’m not going to get emotional. A huge lump forms in my throat, and I hug
him, hard. He puts his arms around me, bemused, and I can’t help it – tears pool in my
eyes.
“Hey, Annie, sweetheart,” Ray croons. “Big old day... eh? Want me to come in and
make you some tea?”
I laugh, in spite of my tears. Tea is always the answer according to Ray. I remember
my mother complaining about him, saying that when it came to tea and sympathy, he was
always good at the tea, not so hot on the sympathy.
“No, Dad, I’m good. It’s been so great to see you. I’ll visit real soon once I’m settled
in Seattle.”
“Good luck with the interviews. Let me know how they go.”
“Sure thing, Dad.”
“Love you, Annie.”
“Love you too, Dad.”
He smiles, his brown eyes warm, glowing, and he climbs back into his car. I wave him
off as he drives into the dusk, and I wander listlessly back into the apartment.
First thing I do is check my cell phone. It needs recharging, so I have to hunt down
the charger and plug it in before I can collect my messages. Four missed calls, one voice
message, and two texts. Three missed calls from Christian... no messages. One missed
call from José and a voice mail from him wishing me all the best for graduation.
I open the texts.
*Are you home safe*
*Call me*
They are both from Christian, why didn’t he call the house? I head into my bedroom
and fire up the mean machine.From: Christian Grey
Subject: Tonight
Date: May 25 2011 23:58
To: Anastasia Steele
I hope you made it home in that car of yours.
Let me know if you’re okay.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Jeez... why is he so worried about my Beetle. It has given me three years of loyal service,
and José has always been on hand to maintain it for me. Christian’s next email is from
today.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Soft Limits
Date: May 26 2011 17:22
To: Anastasia Steele
What can I say that I haven’t already?
Happy to talk these through anytime.
You looked beautiful today.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I want to see him. I hit reply
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Soft Limits
Date: May 26 2011 19:23
To: Christian Grey
I can come over this evening to discuss if you’d like.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Soft Limits
Date: May 26 2011 19:27
To: Anastasia SteeleI’ll come to you. I meant it when I said I wasn’t happy about you driving that car.
I’ll be with you shortly.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Holy crap... he’s coming over now. I have to get one thing ready for him – the first edition
Thomas Hardy books are still on the shelves in the living room. I cannot keep them. I wrap
them in brown paper, and I scrawl on the wrapping a direct quote from Tess from the book:“Hi.” I feel unbearably shy when I open the door. Christian is standing on the porch in his
jeans and leather jacket.
“Hi,” he says, and his face lights up with his radiant smile. I take a moment to admire
the pretty. Oh my, he’s hot in leather.
“Come in.”
“If I may,” he says amused. He holds up a bottle of champagne as he walks in. “I
thought we’d celebrate your graduation. Nothing beats a good Bollinger.”
“Interesting choice of words,” I comment dryly.
He grins.
“Oh, I like your ready wit, Anastasia.”
“We only have teacups. We’ve packed all the glasses.”
“Teacups? Sounds good to me.”
I head into the kitchen. Nervous, butterflies flooding my stomach, it’s like having a
panther or mountain lion all unpredictable and predatory in my living room.
“Do you want saucers as well?”
“Teacups will be fine, Anastasia,” Christian calls distractedly from the living room.
When I return, he’s staring at the brown parcel of books. I place the cups on the table.
“That’s for you,” I murmur anxiously.
Crap... this is probably going to be a fight.“Hmm, I figured as much. Very apt quote.” His long index finger absently traces the
writing. “I thought I was D’Urberville, not Angel. You decided on the debasement.” He
gives me a brief wolfish smile. “Trust you to find something that resonates so appropri-
ately.”
“It’s also a plea,” I whisper. Why am I so nervous? My mouth is dry.
“A plea? For me to go easy on you?”
I nod.
“I bought these for you,” he says quietly his gaze impassive. “I’ll go easier on you if
you accept them.”
I swallow convulsively.
“Christian, I can’t accept them, they’re just too much.”
“You see, this is what I was talking about, you defying me. I want you to have them,
and that’s the end of the discussion. It’s very simple. You don’t have to think about this.
As a submissive you would just be grateful for them. You just accept what I buy you be-
cause it pleases me for you to do so.”
“I wasn’t a submissive when you bought them for me,” I whisper.
“No... but you’ve agreed, Anastasia.” His eyes turn wary.
I sigh. I am not going to win this, so over to plan B.
“So they are mine to do with as I wish?”
He eyes me suspiciously, but concedes.
“Yes.”
“In that case, I’d like to give them to a charity, one working in Darfur since that seems
to be close to your heart. They can auction them.”
“If that’s what you want to do.” His mouth sets into a hard line. He’s disappointed.
I flush.
“I’ll think about it,” I murmur, I don’t want to disappoint him, and his words come
back to me. I want you to want to please me.
“Don’t think, Anastasia. Not about this.” His tone is quiet and serious.
How can I not think? You can pretend to be a car, like his other possessions, my sub-
conscious makes an unwelcome vitriolic return. I ignore her. Oh, can’t we rewind? The
atmosphere between us is now tense. I don’t know what to do. I stare down at my fingers.
How do I retrieve this situation?
He puts the champagne bottle on the table and stands in front of me. Putting his hand
under my chin, he tilts my head up. He gazes down at me, his expression grave.
“I will buy you lots of things, Anastasia. Get used to it. I can afford it. I’m a very
wealthy man.” He leans down and plants a swift, chaste kiss on my lips. “Please.” He
releases me.
‘Ho’ my subconscious mouths at me.
“It makes me feel cheap,” I murmur.
Christian runs his hand through his hair, exasperated.
“It shouldn’t. You’re over-thinking it, Anastasia. Don’t place some vague moral judg-
ment on yourself based on what others might think. Don’t waste your energy. It’s only
because you have reservations about our arrangement, that’s perfectly natural. You don’t
know what you’re getting yourself into.”I frown, trying to process his words.
“Hey, stop this,” he commands softly, cupping my chin again and pulling at it gently so
I release my lower lip from my teeth. “There is nothing about you that is cheap, Anastasia.
I won’t have you thinking that. I just bought you some old books that I thought might mean
something to you, that’s all. Have some champagne.” His eyes warm and soften, and I
smile tentatively back up at him. “That’s better,” he murmurs. He picks up the champagne,
takes off the foil top and cage, twists the bottle rather than the cork, and opens it with a
small pop and a practiced flourish that doesn’t spill a drop. He half fills the cups.
“It’s pink,” I murmur, surprised.
“Bollinger Grande Année Rosé 1999, an excellent vintage,” he says with relish.
“In teacups.”
He grins.
“In teacups. Congratulations on your degree, Anastasia.” We clink cups, and he takes
a drink, but I can’t help thinking this is really about my capitulation.
“Thank you,” I murmur and take a sip. Of course it’s delicious. “Shall we go through
the soft limits?”
He smiles, and I blush.
“Always so eager.” Christian takes my hand and leads me to the couch where he sits
and tugs me down beside him.
“You’re stepfather’s a very taciturn man.”
Oh... not soft limits then. I just want to get this out of the way; the anxiety is gnawing
at me.
“You managed to have him eating out of your hand.” I pout.
Christian laughs softly.
“Only because I know how to fish.”
“How do you know he liked fishing?”
“You told me. When we went for coffee.”
“Oh... did I?” I take another sip. Wow he has a memory for detail. Hmm... this cham-
pagne really is very good. “Did you try the wine at the reception?”
Christian makes a face.
“Yes. It was foul.”
“I thought of you when I tasted it. How did you get to be so knowledgeable about
wine?”
“I’m not knowledgeable, Anastasia, I just know what I like.” His gray eyes shine,
almost silver, and it makes me flush. “Some more?” he asks, referring to the champagne.
“Please.”
Christian rises gracefully and collects the bottle. He fills my cup. Is he getting me
tipsy? I eye him suspiciously.
“This place looks pretty bare, are you ready for the move?”
“More or less.”
“Are you working tomorrow?”
“Yes, my last day at Clayton’s”
“I’d help you move, but I promised to meet my sister at the airport.”
Oh... this is news.“Mia arrives from Paris very early Saturday morning. I’m heading back to Seattle
tomorrow, but I hear Elliot is giving you two a hand.”
“Yes, Kate is very excited about that.”
Christian frowns.
“Yes, Kate and Elliot, who would have thought?” he murmurs, and for some reason,
he doesn’t look pleased.
“So what are you doing about work in Seattle?”
When are we going to talk about the limits? What’s his game?
“I have a couple of interviews for intern places.”
“You were going tell me this when?” He arches a brow.
“Err... I’m telling you now.”
He narrows his eyes.
“Where?”
For some reason, possibly because he might use his influence, I don’t want to tell him.
“A couple of publishing houses.”
“Is that what you want to do, something in publishing?”
I nod warily.
“Well?” He looks at me patiently wanting more information.
“Well what?”
“Don’t be obtuse, Anastasia, which publishing houses?” he scolds.
“Just small ones,” I murmur.
“Why don’t you want me to know?”
“Undue influence.”
He frowns.
“Oh, now you’re being obtuse.”
He laughs.
“Obtuse? Me? God, you’re challenging. Drink up, let’s talk about these limits.” He
fishes out another copy of my email and the list. Does he wander about with these lists in
his pockets? I think there’s one in his jacket that I have. Shit, I’d better not forget that. I
drain my cup.
He glances quickly at me.
“More?”
“Please.”
He smiles that oh-so-smug-private smile of his, holds the champagne bottle up, and
pauses.
“Have you eaten anything?”
Oh no... not this old chestnut.
“Yes. I had a three course meal with Ray.” I roll my eyes at him. The champagne is
making me bold.
He leans forward and holds my chin, staring intently into my eyes.
“Next time you roll your eyes at me, I will take you across my knee.”
What?!
“Oh,” I breathe, and I can see the excitement in his eyes.
“Oh,” he responds, mirroring my tone. “So it begins, Anastasia.”My heart slams against my chest, and the butterflies escape from my stomach into my
constricting throat. Why is that hot?
He fills my cup, and I drink practically all of it. Chastened, I stare up at him.
“Got your attention now, haven’t I?”
I nod.
“Answer me.”
“Yes... you’ve got my attention.”
“Good,” he smiles a knowing smile. “So sexual acts. We’ve done most of this.”
I move closer to him on the couch and glance down at the list.
APPENDIX 3
Soft Limits
To be discussed and agreed between both parties:
Which of the following sexual acts are acceptable to the Submissive?
• Masturbation
• Fellatio
• Cunnilingus
• Vaginal intercourse
• Vaginal fisting
• Anal intercourse
• Anal fisting
“No fisting, you say. Anything else you object to?” he asks softly.
I swallow.
“Anal intercourse doesn’t exactly float my boat.”
“I’ll agree to the fisting, but I’d really like to claim your ass, Anastasia. But we’ll wait
for that. Besides, it’s not something we can dive into,” he smirks at me. “Your ass will
need training.”
“Training?” I whisper.
“Oh yes. It’ll need careful preparation. Anal intercourse can be very pleasurable, trust
me. But if we try it and you don’t like it, we don’t have to do it again.” He grins down at
me.
I blink up at him. He thinks I’ll enjoy it? How does he know it’s pleasurable?
“Have you done that?” I whisper.
“Yes.”
Holy crap. I gasp.
“With a man?”
“No. I’ve never had sex with a man. Not my scene.”
“Mrs. Robinson?”
“Yes.”
Holy shit... how? I frown. He moves on down the list.“Okay... swallowing semen. Well, you get an A in that.”
I flush, and my inner goddess smacks her lips together glowing with pride.
“So.” He looks down at me grinning. “Swallowing semen okay?”
I nod, not able to look him in the eye, and drain my cup again.
“More?” he asks.
“More.” And I’m suddenly reminded of our conversation earlier today as he refills my
cup. Is he referring to that or just the champagne? Is this whole champagne thing more?
“Sex toys?” he asks.
I shrug, glancing down the list.
Is the use of sex toys acceptable to the Submissive?
• Vibrators
• Dildos
• Butt Plugs
• Other
“Butt plug? Does it do what it says on the tin?” I scrunch my nose up in distaste.
“Yes,” he smiles. “And I refer to anal intercourse above. Training.”
“Oh... what’s in other?”
“Beads, eggs... that sort of stuff.”
“Eggs?” I’m alarmed.
“Not real eggs,” he laughs loudly, shaking his head.
I purse my lips at him.
“I’m glad you find me funny.” I can’t keep my injured feelings out of my voice.
He stops laughing.
“I apologize. Miss Steele, I’m sorry,” he says, trying to look contrite, but his eyes are
still dancing with humor. “Any problem with toys?”
“No,” I snap.
“Anastasia,” he cajoles. “I am sorry. Believe me. I don’t mean to laugh. I’ve never
had this conversation in so much detail. You’re just so inexperienced. I’m sorry.” His eyes
are big and gray and sincere.
I thaw a little and take another sip of champagne.
“Right – bondage,” he says, returning to the list. I examine the list, and my inner god-
dess bounces up and down like a small child waiting for ice cream.
Is Bondage acceptable to the Submissive?
• Hands in front • Hands behind back
• Ankles • Knees
• Elbows
• Wrists to ankles
• Spreader bars
• Tied to furniture• Blindfolding
• Gagging
• Bondage with Rope
• Bondage with Tape
• Bondage with leather cuffs
• Suspension
• Bondage with handcuffs/metal restraints
“We’ve talked about suspension. And it’s fine if you want to set that up as a hard
limit. It takes a great deal of time, and I only have you for short periods of time anyway.
Anything else?”
“Don’t laugh at me, but what’s a spreader bar?”
“I promise not to laugh. I’ve apologized twice.” He glares at me. “Don’t make me do
it again,” he warns. And I think I visibly shrink... oh, he’s so bossy. “A spreader is a bar
with cuffs for ankles and/or wrists. They’re fun.”
“Okay... Well gagging me. I’d be worried I wouldn’t be able to breathe”
“I’d be worried if you couldn’t breathe. I don’t want to suffocate you.”
“And how will I use safe words if I’m gagged?”
He pauses.
“First of all, I hope you never have to use them. But if you’re gagged, we’ll use hand
signals,” he says simply.
I blink up at him. But if I’m trussed up, how’s that going to work? My brain is begin-
ning to fog... hmm alcohol.
“I’m nervous about the gagging.”
“Okay. I’ll take note.”
I stare up at him, realization dawning.
“Do you like tying your submissives up so they can’t touch you?”
He gazes at me, his eyes widening.
“That’s one of the reasons,” he says quietly.
“Is that why you’ve tied my hands?”
“Yes.”
“You don’t like talking about that,” I murmur.
“No, I don’t. Would you like another drink? It’s making you brave, and I need to know
how you feel about pain.”
Holy crap... this is the tricky part. He refills my teacup, and I sip.
“So, what’s your general attitude to receiving pain?” Christian looks expectantly at me.
“You’re biting your lip,” he says darkly.
I stop immediately, but I don’t know what to say. I flush and stare down at my hands.
“Were you physically punished as a child?”
“No.”
“So you have no sphere of reference at all?”
“No.”
“It’s not as bad as you think. Your imagination is your worst enemy in this,” he whis-
pers.“Do you have to do it?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Goes with the territory, Anastasia. It’s what I do. I can see you’re nervous. Let’s go
through methods.”
He shows me the list. My subconscious runs, screaming, and hides behind the couch.
• Spanking
• Paddling
• Whipping
• Caning
• Biting
• Nipple clamps
• Genital clamps
• Ice
• Hot wax
• Other types/methods of pain
“Well, you said no to genital clamps. That’s fine. It’s caning that hurts the most.”
I blanch.
“We can work up to that.”
“Or not do it at all,” I whisper.
“This is part of the deal, baby, but we’ll work up to all of this. Anastasia, I won’t push
you too far.”
“This punishment thing, it worries me the most.” My voice is very small.
“Well, I’m glad you’ve told me. We’ll keep caning off the list for now. And as you get
more comfortable with this stuff, we’ll increase intensity. We’ll take it slow.”
I swallow, and he leans forward and kisses me on my lips.
“There, that wasn’t so bad was it?”
I shrug, my heart in mouth again.
“Look, I want to talk about one more thing, then I’m taking you to bed.”
“Bed?” I blink rapidly, and my blood pounds round my body, warming places I didn’t
know existed until very recently.
“Come on, Anastasia, talking through all this, I want to fuck you into next week, right
now. It must be having some effect on you too.”
I squirm. My inner goddess is panting.
“See? Beside, there’s something I want to try.”
“Something painful?”
“No – stop seeing pain everywhere. It’s mainly pleasure. Have I hurt you yet?”
I flush.
“No.”
“Well then. Look, earlier today you were talking about wanting more,” he halts, un-
certain all of a sudden.Oh my... where’s this going?
He clasps my hand.
“Outside of the time you’re my sub, perhaps we could try. I don’t know if it will work.
I don’t know about separating everything. It may not work. But I’m willing to try. Maybe
one night a week. I don’t know.”
Holy cow... my mouth drops open, my subconscious is in shock, Christian Grey is
up for more! He’s willing to try! My subconscious peeks out from behind the couch, still
registering shock on her harpy face.
“I have one condition.” He looks warily at my stunned expression.
“What?” I breathe. Anything. I’ll give you anything.
“You graciously accept my graduation present to you.”
“Oh.” And deep down I know what it is. Dread spawns in my belly.
He’s staring down at me, gauging my reaction.
“Come,” he murmurs and rises, dragging me up. Taking his jacket off, he drapes it
over my shoulders and heads for the door.
Parked outside is a red hatchback car, a two-door compact Audi.
“It’s for you. Happy graduation,” he murmurs, pulling me into his arms and kissing
my hair.
He’s bought me a damned car, brand new by the looks of it. Jeez... I’ve had enough
trouble with the books. I stare at it blankly, trying desperately to determine how I feel
about this. I am appalled on one level, grateful on another, shocked that he’s actually done
it, but the overriding emotion is anger. Yes, I’m angry, especially after everything I told
him about the books... but then he’d already bought this. Taking my hand, he leads me
down the path toward this new acquisition.
“Anastasia, that Beetle of yours is old and frankly dangerous. I would never forgive
myself if something happened to you when it’s so easy for me to make it right,” he trails
off.
His eyes are on me, but at the moment I cannot bring myself to look at him. I stand
silently staring at its awesome bright red newness.
“I mentioned it to your stepfather. He was all for it,” he murmurs.
Turning, I glare at him, my mouth open in horror.
“You mentioned this to Ray. How could you?” I can barely spit the words out. How
dare he? Poor Ray. I feel sick, mortified for my dad.
“It’s a gift, Anastasia. Can’t you just say thank you?”
“But you know it’s too much.”
“Not to me it isn’t, not for my peace of mind.”
I frown at him, at a loss what to say. He just doesn’t get it! He’s had money all his life.
Okay, not all his life – not as a small child – and my world-view shifts. The thought is very
sobering, and I soften towards the car, feeling guilty about my fit of pique. His intentions
are good, misguided, but not from a bad place.
“I’m happy for you to loan this to me, like the laptop.”
He sighs heavily.
“Okay. On loan. Indefinitely.” He looks warily at me.
“No, not indefinitely, but for now. Thank you.”He frowns. I reach up and kiss him briefly on his cheek.
“Thank you for the car, sir.” I say as sweetly as I can manage.
He grabs me suddenly and yanks me up against him, one hand at my back holding me
to him and the other fisting in my hair.
“You are one challenging woman, Ana Steele.” He kisses me passionately, forcing my
lips apart with his tongue, taking no prisoners.
My blood heats immediately, and I’m returning his kiss with my own passion. I want
him badly – in spite of the car, the books, the soft limits... the caning... I want him.
“It’s taking all my self-control not to fuck you on the hood of this car right now, just to
show you that you are mine, and if I want to buy you a fucking car, I’ll buy you a fucking
car,” he growls. “Now let’s get you inside and naked.” He plants a swift rough kiss on me.
Boy, he’s angry. He grabs my hand and leads me back into the apartment and straight
into my bedroom... no passing go. My subconscious is behind the sofa again, head hidden
under her hands. He switches on the sidelight and halts, staring at me.
“Please don’t be angry with me,” I whisper.
His gaze is impassive; his gray eyes cold shards of smoky glass.
“I’m sorry about the car and the books,” I trail off. He remains silent and brooding.
“You scare me when you’re angry,” I breathe, staring at him.
He closes his eyes and shakes his head. When he opens them, his expression has soft-
ened fractionally. He takes a deep breath and swallows.
“Turn round,” he whispers. “I want to get you out of that dress.”
Another mercurial mood swing, it’s so hard to keep up. Obediently, I turn and my heart
is thumping, desire instantly replacing unease, coursing through my blood and settling dark
and yearning low, low in my belly. He scoops my hair off my back so it hangs down my
right side, curling at my breast. He places his index finger at the nape of my neck and ach-
ingly slowly drags it down my spine. His well-manicured fingernail gently grazes down
my back.
“I like this dress,” he murmurs. “I like to see your flawless skin.”
His finger reaches the back of my halter dress midway down my spine, and hooking his
finger beneath the top, he pulls me closer so that I step back against him. I feel him flush
against my body. Leaning down, he inhales my hair.
“You smell so good, Anastasia. So sweet.” His nose skims past my ear down my neck,
and he trails soft, feather light kisses along my shoulder.
My breathing changes, becoming shallow, rushed, full of expectation. His fingers are
at my zipper. Achingly slow, once more he eases it down while his lips move, licking and
kissing and sucking their way across to my other shoulder. He is so tantalizingly good at
this. My body resonates, and I start to squirm languidly beneath his touch.
“You. Are. Going. To. Have. To. Learn. To. Keep. Still,” he whispers, kissing me
around my nape between each word.
He tugs at the fastening at the halter neck, and the dress drops and pools at my feet.
“No bra, Miss Steele. I like that.”
His hands reach round and cup my breasts, and my nipples pucker at his touch.
“Lift your arms and put them around my head,” he murmurs against my neck.I obey immediately, and my breasts rise and push into his hands, my nipples hardening
further. My fingers weave into his hair, and very gently I tug his soft, sexy hair. I roll my
head to one side to give him easier access to my neck.
“Mmm... ” he murmurs into that space behind my ear, as he starts to extend my nipples
with his long fingers, mirroring my hands in his hair.
I groan as the sensation registers sharp and clear in my groin.
“Shall I make you come this way?” he whispers.
I arch my back to force my breasts into his expert hands.
“You like this, don’t you, Miss Steele?”
“Mmm... ”
“Tell me.” He continues the slow sensuous torture, pulling gently.
“Yes.”
“Yes, what.”
“Yes... Sir.”
“Good girl.” He pinches me hard, and my body writhes convulsively against his front.
I gasp at the exquisite, acute, pleasure/pain. I feel him against me. I moan and my
hands clench in his hair pulling harder.
“I don’t think you’re ready to come yet,” he whispers, stilling his hands, and he gently
bites my earlobe and tugs at it. “Besides, you have displeased me.”
Oh... no, what will this mean? My brain registers through the fog of needy desire as
I groan.
“So perhaps I won’t let you come after all.” He returns the attention of his fingers to my
nipples, pulling, twisting, kneading. I grind my behind against him... moving side to side.
I feel his grin against my neck as his hands move down to my hips. His fingers hook
into my panties at the back, stretching them, and he pushes his thumbs through the mate-
rial, shredding them and tossing them in front of me so I can see... holy shit. His hands
move down to my sex... and from behind, he slowly inserts his finger.
“Oh, yes. My sweet girl is all ready,” he breathes as he whirls me round so I’m facing
him. His breathing has quickened. He puts his finger in his mouth. “You taste so fine, Miss
Steele.” He sighs. “Undress me,” he commands quietly, staring down at me, eyes hooded.
All I’m wearing is my shoes, well, Kate’s high-heeled pumps. I’m taken aback. I’ve
never undressed a man.
“You can do it,” he cajoles softly.
Oh my. I blink rapidly. Where to start? I reach for his t-shirt, and he grabs my hands
and shakes his head, smiling slyly at me.
“Oh no.” He shakes his head, grinning. “Not the t-shirt, you may need to touch me for
what I have planned.” His eyes are alive with excitement.
Oh... this is news... I can touch with clothes. He takes one of my hands and places it
against his erection.
“This is the effect you have on me, Miss Steele.”
I gasp and flex my fingers around his girth, and he grins.
“I want to be inside you. Take my jeans off. You’re in charge.”
Holy fuck... me in charge. My mouth drops open.
“What are you going to do with me?” he teases.Oh the possibilities... my inner goddess roars, and from somewhere born of frustra-
tion, need, and sheer Steele bravery, I push him on to the bed. He laughs as he falls, and
I gaze down at him feeling victorious. My inner goddess is going to explode. I yank off
his shoes, quickly, clumsily, and his socks. He’s staring up at me, his eyes luminous with
amusement and desire. He looks... glorious... mine. I crawl up the bed and sit astride
him to undo his jeans, sliding my fingers under the waistband, feeling the hair in his oh so
happy trail. He closes his eyes and flexes his hips.
“You’ll have to learn to keep still,” I scold, and I tug at the hair under his waistband.
His breath hitches, and he grins at me.
“Yes, Miss Steele,” he murmurs, eyes burning bright. “In my pocket, condom,” he
breathes.
I search in his pocket slowly, watching his face as I feel around. His mouth is open. I
fish out both foil packets that I find and lay them on the bed by his hips. Two! My over-
eager fingers reach for the button of his waistband and undo it, fumbling a little. I am
beyond excited.
“So eager, Miss Steele,” he murmurs, his voice laced with humor. I tug down the zip-
per, and now I’m faced with the problem of removing his pants... hmm. I shuffle down and
pull. They hardly move. I frown. How can this be so difficult?
“I can’t keep still if you’re going to bite that lip,” he warns, then arches his pelvis up
off the bed so I’m able to tug down his trousers and his boxers at the same time, whoa...
freeing him. He kicks his clothes to the floor.
Holy Moses, he’s all mine to play with, and suddenly it’s Christmas.
“Now what are you going to do?” he breathes, all trace of humor gone. I reach up and
touch him, watching his expression as I do. His mouth shapes like a letter O as he takes a
sharp breath. His skin is so smooth and soft... and hard... hmm, what a delicious combina-
tion. I lean forward, my hair falling around me, and he’s in my mouth. I suck, hard. He
closes his eyes, his hips jerking beneath me.
“Jeez, Ana, steady,” he groans.
I feel so powerful, it’s such a heady feeling, teasing and testing him with my mouth and
tongue. He tenses underneath me as I run my mouth up and down him, pushing him to the
back of my throat, my lips tight... again and again.
“Stop, Ana, stop. I don’t want to come.”
I sit up, blinking at him, and I’m panting like him, but confused. I thought I was in
charge? My inner goddess looks like someone snatched her ice cream.
“You’re innocence and enthusiasm is very disarming,” he gasps. “You, on top... that’s
what we need to do.”
Oh.
“Here, put this on.” He hands me a foil packet.
Holy Crap. How? I rip the packet open, and the rubbery condom is all tacky in my
fingers.
“Pinch the top and then roll it down. You don’t want any air in the end of that sucker,”
he pants.
And very slowly, concentrating hard, I do as I’m told.
“Christ, you’re killing me here, Anastasia,” he groans.I admire my handiwork and him. He really is a fine specimen of a man, looking at him
is very, very arousing.
“Now. I want to be buried inside you,” he murmurs. I stare down at him, daunted, and
he sits up suddenly, so we’re nose to nose.
“Like this,” he breathes, and he snakes one hand round my hips, lifting me slightly,
and with the other he positions himself beneath me, and very slowly, eases me on to him.
I groan as he stretches me open, filling me, my mouth hanging open in surprise at the
sweet, sublime, agonizing, over-full feeling. Oh... please.
“That’s right, baby, feel me, all of me,” he growls and briefly closes his eyes.
And he’s inside me, sheathed to the hilt, and he holds me in place, for seconds... min-
utes... I have no idea,, staring intently into my eyes.
“It’s deep this way,” he murmurs. He flexes and swivels his hips in the same motion,
and I groan... oh my – the sensation radiates throughout my belly... everywhere. Fuck!
“Again,” I whisper. He grins a lazy grin and obliges.
Moaning, I throw my head back, my hair tumbling down my back, and very slowly, he
sinks back down on to the bed.
“You move, Anastasia, up and down, how you want. Take my hands,” he breathes, his
voice hoarse and low and oh so sexy.
I clasp his hands, holding on for life. Gently I push off him and back down, oh my. His
eyes are burning with wild anticipation. His breathing is ragged, matching mine, and he
lifts his pelvis as I come down, bouncing me back up. We pick up the rhythm... up, down,
up, down... over and over... and it feels so... good. Between my panting breaths, the deep
down, brimming fullness... the vehement sensation pulsing through me that’s building
quickly, I watch him, our eyes locked... and I see wonder there, wonder at me.
I am fucking him. I am in charge. He’s mine, and I’m his. The thought pushes me,
weighted with concrete, over the edge, and I climax around him... shouting incoherently.
He grabs my hips, and closing his eyes, tipping his head back, his jaw strained, he comes
quietly. I collapse on to his chest, overwhelmed, somewhere between fantasy and reality,
a place where there are no hard or soft limits.Slowly the outside world invades my senses, and oh my, what an invasion. I am floating,
my limbs soft and languid, utterly spent. I’m lying on top of him, my head on his chest,
and he smells divine: fresh, laundered linen and some expensive body wash, and the best,
most seductive scent on the planet... Christian. I don’t want to move, I want to breathe
this elixir for eternity. I nuzzle him, wishing I didn’t have the barrier of his t-shirt. And as
rhyme and reason return to the rest of my body, I stretch my hand out on his chest. This is
the first time I’ve touched him here. He’s firm... strong. His hand swoops up and grabs
mine, but he softens the blow by pulling it to his mouth and sweetly kissing my knuckles.
He rolls over so he’s gazing down at me.
“Don’t,” he murmurs, then kisses me lightly.
“Why don’t you like to be touched?” I whisper, staring up into soft gray eyes.
“Because I’m fifty shades of fucked-up, Anastasia.”
Oh... his honesty is completely disarming. I blink up at him.
“I had a very tough introduction to life. I don’t want to burden you with the details.
Just don’t.” He strokes his nose against mine, and then he pulls out of me and sits up.
“I think that’s all the very basics covered. How was that?”
He looks thoroughly pleased with himself and sounds very matter-of-fact at the same
time, like he’s just marked another tick box in a checklist. I’m still reeling from the tough
introduction to life comment. It’s so frustrating – I am desperate to know more. But hewon’t tell me. I cock my head to one side, like he does, and make an enormous effort to
smile at him.
“If you imagine for one minute that I think you ceded control to me, well you haven’t
taken into account my GPA.” I smile shyly at him. “But thank you for the illusion.”
“Miss Steele, you are not just a pretty face. You’ve had six orgasms so far and all of
them belong to me,” he boasts, playful again.
I flush and blink at the same time, as he stares down at me. He’s keeping count! His
brow furrows.
“Do you have something to tell me?” his voice is suddenly stern.
I frown. Crap.
“I had a dream this morning.”
“Oh?” He glares at me.
Double crap. Am I in trouble?
“I came in my sleep.” I throw my arm over my eyes. He says nothing. I peek up at him
from under my arm, and he looks amused.
“In your sleep?”
“Woke me up.”
“I’m sure it did. What were you dreaming about?”
Crap.
“You.”
“What was I doing?”
I throw my arm over my eyes again. And like a small child, I briefly entertain the
thought that if I can’t see him, then he can’t see me.
“Anastasia, what was I doing? I won’t ask you again.”
“You had a riding crop.”
He moves my arm.
“Really?”
“Yes.” I am crimson.
“There’s hope for you yet,” he murmurs. “I have several riding crops.”
“Brown plaited leather?”
He laughs.
“No, but I’m sure I could get one.” His gray eyes blaze with excitement.
Leaning down, he gives me a brief kiss then stands and grabs his boxers, oh no... he’s
going. I glance quickly at the time – it’s only nine-forty. I scoot out of bed too and grab my
sweat pants and a cami top, then sit back on the bed, cross-legged, watching him. I don’t
want him to go. What can I do?
“When is your period due?” He interrupts my thoughts.
What!
“I hate wearing these things,” he grumbles. He holds up the condom, then puts it on
the floor, and slips on his jeans.
“Well?” he prompts when I don’t reply, and he looks at me expectantly as if he’s wait-
ing for my opinion on the weather. Holy crap... this is personal stuff.
“Next week.” I stare down at my hands.
“You need to sort out some contraception.”He is so bossy. I stare at him blankly. He sits back on the bed as he puts on his shoes
and socks.
“Do you have a doctor?”
I shake my head. We are back to mergers and acquisitions – another 180-degree mood
swing.
He frowns.
“I can have mine come and see you at your apartment – Sunday morning before you
come and see me. Or he can see you at my place. Which would you prefer?”
No pressure then. Something else that he’s paying for... but actually this is for his
benefit.
“Your place.” That means I am guaranteed to see him Sunday.
“Okay. I’ll let you know the time.”
“Are you leaving?”
Don’t go... stay with me please.
“Yes.”
Why?
“How are you getting back?” I whisper.
“Taylor will pick me up.”
“I can drive you. I have a lovely new car.”
He gazes at me, his expression warm.
“That’s more like it. But I think you’ve had too much to drink.”
“Did you get me tipsy on purpose?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because you over-think everything, and you’re reticent like your stepdad. A drop of
wine in you and you start talking, and I need you to communicate honestly with me. Oth-
erwise you clam up, and I have no idea what you’re thinking. In vino veritas, Anastasia.”
“And you think you’re always honest with me?”
“I endeavor to be.” He looks down at me warily. “This will only work if we’re honest
with each other.”
“I’d like you to stay and use this.” I hold up the second condom.
He smiles and his eyes glow with humor.
“Anastasia, I have crossed so many lines here tonight. I have to go. I’ll see you on
Sunday. I’ll have the revised contract ready for you, and then we can really start to play.”
“Play?” Holy shit. My heart leaps into my mouth.
“I’d like to do a scene with you. But I won’t until you’ve signed, so I know you’re
ready.”
“Oh. So I could stretch this out, if I don’t sign?”
He gazes at me assessing, and then his lips twitch into a smile.
“Well, I suppose you could, but I may crack under the strain.”
“Crack? How?” My inner goddess has woken and is paying attention.
He nods slowly, and then he grins, teasing.
“Could get really ugly.”
His grin is infectious.“Ugly, how?”
“Oh you know, explosions, car chases, kidnapping, incarceration.”
“You’d kidnap me?”
“Oh yes,” he grins.
“Hold me against my will?” Jeez this is hot.
“Oh yes,” he nods. “And then we’re talking TPE 24/7.”
“You’ve lost me,” I breathe, my heart is pounding... is he serious?
“Total Power Exchange – round the clock.” His eyes are shining, and I can feel his
excitement from where I sit.
Holy shit.
“So you have no choice,” he says sardonically.
“Clearly.” I can’t keep the sarcasm out of my voice as my eyes reach for the heavens.
“Oh, Anastasia Steele, did you just roll your eyes at me?”
Crap.
“No,” I squeak.
“I think you did. What did I say I’d do to you if you rolled your eyes at me again?”
Shit. He sits down on the edge of the bed.
“Come here,” he says softly.
I blanch. Jeez... he’s serious. I sit staring at him completely immobile.
“I haven’t signed,” I whisper.
“I told you what I’d do. I’m a man of my word. I’m going to spank you, and then I’m
going to fuck you very quick and very hard. Looks like we’ll need that condom after all.”
His voice is so soft, menacing, and it’s damned hot. My insides practically contort with
potent, needy, liquid, desire. He gazes at me, waiting, eyes blazing. Tentatively, I uncurl
my legs. Should I run? This is it, our relationship hangs in the balance, right here, right
now. Do I let him do this or do I say no, and then that’s it? Because I know it will be over
if I say no. Do it! My inner goddess pleads with me, my subconscious is as paralyzed as
I am.
“I’m waiting,” he says. “I’m not a patient man.”
Oh for the love of all that’s holy. I’m panting, afraid, turned on. Blood pounding
through my body, my legs are like jelly. Slowly, I crawl over to him until I am beside him.
“Good girl,” he murmurs. “Now stand up.”
Oh shit... can’t he just get this over with? I’m not sure if I can stand. Hesitantly, I
clamber to my feet. He holds his hand out, and I place the condom in his palm. Suddenly
he grabs me, tipping me across his lap. With one smooth movement, he angles his body so
my torso is resting on the bed beside him. He throws his right leg over both of mine and
plants his left forearm on the small of my back, holding me down so I cannot move. Oh
fuck.
“Put your hands up on either side of your head,” he orders.
I obey immediately.
“Why am I doing this, Anastasia?” he asks.
“Because I rolled my eyes at you,” I can barely speak.
“Do you think that’s polite?”
“No.”“Will you do it again?”
“No.”
“I will spank you each time you do it, do you understand?”
Very slowly, he pulls down my sweatpants. Oh, how demeaning is this, demeaning and
scary and hot. He’s making such a meal of this. My heart is in my mouth. I can barely
breathe. Shit, is this going to hurt?
He places his hand on my naked behind, softly fondling me, stroking round and round
with his flat palm. And then his hand is no longer there... and he hits me – hard. Ow! My
eyes spring open in response to the pain, and I try to rise, but his hand moves between my
shoulder blades keeping me down. He caresses me again where he’s hit me, and his breath-
ing’s changed – it’s louder, harsher. He hits me again and again, quickly in succession.
Holy fuck it hurts. I make no sound, my face screwed up against the pain. I try and wriggle
away from the blows – spurred on by adrenaline spiking and coursing through my body.
“Keep still,” he growls. “Or I’ll spank you for longer.”
He’s rubbing me now, and the blow follows. A rhythmic pattern emerges, caress,
fondle, slap hard. I have to concentrate to handle this pain. My mind empties as I endeavor
to absorb the grueling sensation. He doesn’t hit me in the same place twice in succession
– he’s spreading the pain.
“Aargh!” I cry out on the tenth slap – and I’m unaware that I have been mentally count-
ing the blows.
“I’m just getting warmed up.”
He hits me again then he strokes me softly. The combination of the hard stinging blow
and his gentle caress is so mind numbing. He hits me again... this is getting harder to take.
My face hurts, it’s screwed up so tight. He strokes me gently and then the blow comes. I
cry out again.
“No one to hear you, baby, just me.”
And he hits me again and again. From somewhere deep inside, I want to beg him to
stop. But I don’t. I don’t want to give him the satisfaction. He continues the unrelenting
rhythm. I cry out six more times. Eighteen slaps in total. My body is singing, singing from
his merciless assault.
“Enough,” he breathes hoarsely. “Well done, Anastasia. Now I’m going to fuck you.”
He caresses my behind gently, and it burns as he strokes me round and round and
down. Suddenly, he inserts two fingers inside me, taking me completely by surprise. I
gasp, this new assault breaking through the numbness around my brain.
“Feel this. See how much your body likes this, Anastasia. You’re soaking just for me.”
There is awe in his voice. He moves his fingers, in and out in quick succession.
I groan, no surely not, and then his fingers are gone... and I’m left wanting.
“Next time, I will get you to count. Now where’s that condom?”
He reaches beside him for the condom and lifts me gently, pushing me face down onto
the bed. I hear the sound of his zipper and the rip of the foil. He drags my sweatpants off
and then guides me into a kneeling position, gently caressing my now very sore behind.
“I’m going to take you now. You can come,” he murmurs.
What? Like I have a choice.And he’s inside me, quickly filling me, I moan loudly. He moves, pounding into me, a
fast, intense pace against my sore behind. The feeling is beyond exquisite, raw and debas-
ing and mind blowing. My senses are ravaged, disconnected, solely concentrating on what
he’s doing to me. How he’s making me feel, that familiar pull deep in my belly, tightening,
quickening. NO... and my traitorous body explodes in an intense, body-shattering orgasm.
“Oh, Ana!” he cries out loudly as he finds his release, holding me in place as he pours
himself into me. He collapses, panting hard beside me, and he pulls me on top of him and
buries his face in my hair, holding me close.
“Oh, baby,” he breathes. “Welcome to my world.”
We lie there, panting together, waiting for our breathing to slow. He gently strokes my
hair. I’m on his chest again. But this time, I don’t have the strength to lift my hand and
feel him. Boy... I survived. That wasn’t so bad. I’m more stoic than I thought. My inner
goddess is prostrate... well at least she’s quiet. Christian nuzzles my hair again, inhaling
deeply.
“Well done, baby,” he whispers, quiet joy in his voice. His words curl around me like
a soft fluffy towel from the Heathman Hotel, and I’m so pleased that he’s happy.
He picks at the strap on my camisole.
“Is this what you sleep in?” he asks gently.
“Yes,” I breathe sleepily.
“You should be in silks and satins, you beautiful girl. I’ll take you shopping.”
“I like my sweats,” I murmur, trying and failing to sound irritated.
He kisses my head again.
“We’ll see,” he says.
We lie for a few more minutes, hours, who knows, and I think I doze.
“I have to go,” he says, and leaning down, he kisses my forehead gently. “Are you
okay?” His voice is soft.
I think about his question. My backside is sore. Well, glowing now, and amazingly
I feel, apart from exhausted, radiant. The realization is humbling, unexpected. I don’t
understand. Holy shit.
“I’m okay,” I whisper. I don’t want to say more than that.
He rises.
“Where’s your bathroom?”
“Along the corridor to the left.”
He scoops up the other condom and heads out of the bedroom. I rise stiffly and put my
sweatpants back on. They chafe a little against my still-smarting behind. I’m so confused
by my reaction. I remember him saying – I can’t remember when – that I would feel so
much better after a good hiding. How can that be so? I really don’t get it. But strangely,
I do. I can’t say that I enjoyed the experience, in fact, I would still go a long way to avoid
it, but now... I have this safe, weird, bathed in afterglow, sated feeling. I put my head in
my hands. I just don’t understand.
Christian re-enters the room. I can’t look him in the eye. I stare down at my hands.
“I found some baby oil. Let me rub it into your behind.”
What?
“No. I’ll be fine.”“Anastasia,” he warns, and I want to roll my eyes but quickly stop myself. I stand fac-
ing the bed. Sitting beside me, he gently pulls my sweatpants down again. Up and down
like whores’ drawers my subconscious remarks bitterly. In my head, I tell her where to go.
Christian squirts baby oil into his hand and then rubs my behind with careful tenderness
– from makeup remover to smoothing balm for a spanked ass, who would have thought it
was such a versatile liquid.
“I like my hands on you,” he murmurs, and I have to agree, me too.
“There,” he says when he’s finished, and he pulls my pants up again.
I glance over at my clock. It’s ten-thirty.
“I’m leaving now.”
“I’ll see you out.” I still can’t look at him.
Taking my hand, he leads me to the front door. Fortunately, Kate is still not home. She
must still be having dinner with her folks and Ethan. I’m really glad she’s not been around
to hear my chastisement.
“Don’t you have to call Taylor?” I ask, avoiding eye contact.
“Taylor’s been here since nine. Look at me,” he breathes.
I struggle to meet his eyes, but when I do, he’s gazing down at me with wonder.
“You didn’t cry,” he murmurs, then grabs me suddenly and kisses me fervently. “Sun-
day,” he whispers against my lips, and it’s both a promise and a threat.
I watch him walk down the path and climb into the big black Audi. He doesn’t look
back. I close the door and stand helpless in the living room of an apartment that I shall
only spend another two nights in. A place I have lived happily for almost four years... yet
today, for the first time ever, I feel lonely and uncomfortable here, unhappy with my own
company. Have I strayed so far from who I am? I know that lurking, not very far under
my rather numb exterior, is a well of tears. What am I doing? The irony is I can’t even sit
down and enjoy a good cry. I’ll have to stand. I know it’s late, but I decide to call my mom.
“Honey, how are you? How was graduation?” she enthuses down the phone. Her
voice is a soothing balm.
“Sorry it’s so late,” I whisper.
She pauses.
“Ana? What’s wrong?” She’s all seriousness now.
“Nothing, Mom, I just wanted to hear your voice.”
She’s silent for a moment.
“Ana, what is it? Please tell me.” Her voice is soft and comforting, and I know that she
cares. Uninvited, my tears begin to flow. I have cried so often in the last few days.
“Please, Ana,” she says, and her anguish reflects mine.
“Oh, Mom, it’s a man.”
“What’s he done to you?” Her alarm is palpable.
“It’s not like that.” Although it is... Oh crap. I don’t want to worry her. I just want
someone else to be strong for me at the moment.
“Ana, please, you’re worrying me.”
I take a big breath.
“I’ve kind of fallen for this guy, and he’s so different from me, and I don’t know if we
should be together.”“Oh, darling. I wish I could be with you. I am so sorry I missed your graduation.
You’ve fallen for someone, finally. Oh, honey, men, they are so tricky. They’re a different
species, honey. How long have you known him?”
Christian is definitely a different species... different planet.
“Oh, nearly three weeks or so.”
“Ana, darling, that’s no time at all. How can you possibly know someone in that kind
of time frame? Just take it easy with him and keep him at arm’s length until you decide
whether he’s worthy of you.”
Wow... it’s unnerving when my mother is so insightful, but she’s just too late on this.
Is he worthy of me? That’s an interesting concept. I always wonder whether I am worthy
of him.
“Honey, you sound so unhappy. Come home – visit with us. I miss you, darling. Bob
would love to see you too. You can get some distance and maybe some perspective. You
need a break. You’ve been working so hard.”
Oh boy, is this tempting. Run away to Georgia. Grab some sunshine, some cocktails.
My mother’s good humor... her loving arms.
“I have two job interviews in Seattle on Monday.”
“Oh, that’s wonderful news.”
The door opens and Kate appears, grinning at me. Her face falls when she sees I’ve
been crying.
“Mom, I have to go. I’ll think about a visit. Thank you.”
“Honey, please, don’t let a man get under your skin. You’re far too young. Go and
enjoy yourself.”
“Yes, Mom, love you.”
“Oh, Ana, I love you too, so much. Stay safe, honey.” I hang up and face Kate who
glares at me.
“Has that obscenely rich fucker upset you again?”
“No... sort of... err... yes.”
“Just tell him to take a hike, Ana. You’ve been so up and down since you met him.
I’ve never seen you like this.”
The world of Katherine Kavanagh is very clear, very black and white. Not the intan-
gible, mysterious, vague hues of gray that color my world. Welcome to my world.
“Sit, let’s talk. Let’s have some wine. Oh, you’ve had champagne.” She spies the
bottle. “Some good stuff too.”
I smile ineffectually, looking apprehensively at the couch. I approach it with caution.
Hmm... sitting.
“Are you okay?”
“I fell over and landed on my behind.”
She doesn’t think to question my explanation, because I am one of the most un-coor-
dinated people in Washington State. I never thought I’d see that as a blessing. I sit down
gingerly, pleasantly surprised that I’m okay, and turn my attention to Kate, but my mind
glazes over and I’m pulled back to the Heathman – “Well, if you were mine you wouldn’t
be able to sit down for a week after the stunt you pulled yesterday.” He said it then, and allI could concentrate on at the time was being his. All the warning signs were there, I was
just too clueless and too enamored to notice.
Kate comes back into the living area with a bottle of red wine and washed teacups.
“Here we go.” She hands me a cup of wine. It won’t taste as good as the Bolly.
“Ana, if he’s a jerk with commitment issues, dump him. Though I don’t really under-
stand his commitment issues. He couldn’t take his eyes off you in the marquee, watched
you like a hawk. I’d say he was completely smitten, but maybe he has a funny way of
showing it.”
Smitten? Christian? Funny way of showing it? I’ll say.
“Kate, it’s complicated. How was your evening?” I ask.
I can’t talk this through with Kate without revealing too much, but one question on her
day and Kate is off. It’s so reassuring to sit and listen to her normal chatter. The hot news
is that Ethan may be coming to live with us after their holiday. That will be fun – Ethan
is a hoot. I frown. I don’t think Christian will approve. Well... tough. He’ll just have to
suck it up. I have a couple of teacups of wine and decide to call it a night. It’s been one
very long day. Kate hugs me, and then grabs the phone to call Elliot.
I check the mean machine after I brush my teeth. There’s an email from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: You
Date: May 26 2011 23:14
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
You are quite simply exquisite. The most beautiful, intelligent, witty and brave woman
I have ever met. Take some Advil – this is not a request. And don’t drive your Beetle
again. I will know.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh, not drive my car again! I type out my reply.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Flattery
Date: May 26 2011 23:20
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
Flattery will get you nowhere, but since you’ve been everywhere the point is moot.
I will need to drive my Beetle to a garage so I can sell it – so will not graciously accept
any of your nonsense over that. Red wine is always more preferable to Advil.
Ana
PS: Caning is a HARD limit for me.I hit send.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Frustrating women who can’t take compliments
Date: May 26 2011 23:26
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Ms. Steele
I am not flattering you. You should go to bed.
I accept your addition to the hard limits.
Don’t drink too much.
Taylor will dispose of your car and get a good price for it too.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Taylor – Is he the right man for the job?
Date: May 26 2011 23:40
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
I am intrigued that you are happy to risk letting your right hand man drive my car – but not
some woman you fuck occasionally. How can I be sure that Taylor is the man to get me
the best deal for said car? I have, in the past, probably before I met you, been known to
drive a hard bargain.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Careful!
Date: May 26 2011 23:44
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Ms. Steele
I am assuming it is the RED WINE talking, and that you’ve had a very long day.
Though I am tempted to drive back over there to ensure that you don’t sit down for a
week, rather than an evening.
Taylor is ex-army and capable of driving anything from a motorcycle to a Sherman Tank.
Your car does not present a hazard to him.
Now please do not refer to yourself as ‘some woman I fuck occasionally’ because, quite
frankly it makes me MAD, and you really wouldn’t like me when I’m angry.Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Careful yourself
Date: May 26 2011 23:57
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I’m not sure I like you anyway, especially at the moment.
Ms. Steele
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Careful yourself
Date: May 27 2011 00:03
To: Anastasia Steele
Why don’t you like me?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Careful yourself
Date: May 27 2011 00:09
To: Christian Grey
Because you never stay with me.
There, that’s given him something to think about. I shut the machine down with a flourish
I don’t really feel and crawl into my bed. I switch off my sidelight and stare up at the ceil-
ing. It’s been one long day, one emotional wrench after another. It was heartwarming to
spend some time with Ray. He looked well, and weirdly he approved of Christian. Jeez,
Kate and her gargantuan mouth. Hearing Christian speak about being hungry. What the
hell is that all about? God, and the car. I haven’t even told Kate about the new car. What
was Christian thinking?
And then this evening, he actually hit me. I’ve never been hit in my life. What have
I gotten myself into? Very slowly, my tears, halted by Kate’s arrival, begin to slide down
the side of my face and into my ears. I have fallen for someone who’s so emotionally shut
down, I will only get hurt – deep down I know this – someone who by his own admissionis completely fucked up. Why is he so fucked up? It must be awful to be as affected as
he is, and the thought that as a toddler he suffered some unbearable cruelty makes me cry
harder. Perhaps if he was more normal he wouldn’t want you, my subconscious contributes
snidely to my musings... and in my heart of hearts I know this is true. I turn into my pil-
low and the sluice gates open... and for the first time in years, I am sobbing uncontrollably
into my pillow.
I am momentarily distracted from my dark night of the soul by Kate shouting.
“What the fuck do you think you’re doing here?”
“Well you can’t!”
“What the fuck have you done to her now?”
“Since she’s met you she cries all the time.”
“You can’t come in here!”
Christian bursts into my bedroom and unceremoniously switches on the overhead
light, making me squint.
“Jesus, Ana,” he mutters. He flicks the switch off again and is at my side in a moment.
“What are you doing here?” I gasp between sobs. Crap. I can’t stop crying.
He switches on the sidelight making me squint again. Kate comes and stands in the
doorway.
“Do you want me to throw this asshole out?” she asks, radiating thermo-nuclear hostil-
ity.
Christian raises his eyebrows at her, no doubt surprised by her flattering epithet and
her feral antagonism. I shake my head, and she rolls her eyes at me. Oh... I wouldn’t do
that near Mr. G.
“Just holler if you need me,” she says more gently. “Grey – your cards are marked,”
she hisses at him. He nods at her, and she turns and pulls the door to but doesn’t close it.
Christian gazes down at me, his expression grave, his face ashen. He’s wearing his
pinstriped jacket, and from his inside pocket, he pulls out a handkerchief and hands it to
me. I think I still have his other one somewhere.
“What’s going on?” he asks quietly.
“Why are you here?” I ask, ignoring his question. My tears have miraculously ceased,
but I’m left with dry heaves racking my body.
“Part of my role is to look after your needs. You said you wanted me to stay, so here I
am. And yet I find you like this.” He blinks at me, truly bewildered. “I’m sure I’m respon-
sible, but I have no idea why. Is it because I hit you?”
I pull myself up, wincing from my sore behind. I sit and face him.
“Did you take some Advil?”
I shake my head. He narrows his eyes, stands, and leaves the room. I hear him talk-
ing to Kate but not what they are saying. He’s back a few moments later with pills and a
teacup of water.
“Take these,” he orders gently as he sits on my bed beside me.
I do as I’m told.
“Talk to me,” he whispers. “You told me you were okay. I’d never have left you if I
thought you were like this.”I stare down at my hands. What can I say that I haven’t said already? I want more. I
want him to stay because he wants to stay with me, not because I’m a blubbering mess, and
I don’t want him to beat me, is that so unreasonable?
“I take it that when you said you were okay, you weren’t.”
I flush.
“I thought I was fine.”
“Anastasia, you can’t tell me what you think I want to hear. That’s not very honest,”
he admonishes me. “How can I trust anything you’ve said to me?”
I peek up at him, and he’s frowning, a bleak look in his eye. He runs both hands
through his hair.
“How did you feel while I was hitting you and after?”
“I didn’t like it. I’d rather you didn’t do it again.”
“You weren’t meant to like it.”
“Why do you like it?” I stare up at him.
My question surprises him.
“You really want to know?”
“Oh, trust me, I’m fascinated.” And I can’t quite keep the sarcasm out of my voice.
He narrows his eyes again.
“Careful,” he warns.
I blanch.
“Are you going to hit me again?” I challenge.
“No, not tonight.”
Phew... my subconscious and I both breathe a silent sigh of relief.
“So,” I prompt.
“I like the control it brings me, Anastasia. I want you to behave in a particular way,
and if you don’t, I shall punish you, and you will learn to behave the way I desire. I enjoy
punishing you. I’ve wanted to spank you since you asked me if I was gay.”
I flush at the memory. Jeez, I wanted to spank myself after that question. So Katherine
Kavanagh is responsible for all this, and if she’d gone to that interview and asked her gay
question, she’d be sitting here with the sore ass. I don’t like that thought. How confusing
is this?
“So you don’t like the way I am.”
He stares at me, bewildered again.
“I think you’re lovely the way you are.”
“So why are you trying to change me?”
“I don’t want to change you. I’d like you to be courteous and to follow the set of rules
I’ve given you and not defy me. Simple,” he says.
“But you want to punish me?”
“Yes I do.”
“That’s what I don’t understand.”
He sighs and runs his hands through his hair again.
“It’s the way I’m made, Anastasia. I need to control you. I need you to behave in a
certain way, and if you don’t – I love to watch your beautiful alabaster skin pink and warm
up under my hands. It turns me on.”Holy shit. Now we’re getting somewhere.
“So it’s not the pain you’re putting me through?”
He swallows.
“A bit, to see if you can take it, but that’s not the whole reason. It’s the fact that you
are mine to do with as I see fit – ultimate control over someone else. And it turns me on.
Big time, Anastasia. Look, I’m not explaining myself very well... I’ve never had to before.
I’ve not really thought about this in any great depth. I’ve always been with like-minded
people,” he shrugs apologetically. “And you still haven’t answered my question – how did
you feel afterwards?”
“Confused.”
“You were sexually aroused by it, Anastasia,” he closes his eyes briefly, and when he
re-opens them and gazes at me, they are smoldering smoky embers.
His expression pulls at that dark part of me, buried in the depths of my belly – my
libido, woken and tamed by him, but even now, insatiable.
“Don’t look at me like that,” he murmurs.
I frown. Jeez what have I done now?
“I don’t have any condoms, Anastasia, and you know, you’re upset. Contrary to what
your roommate believes, I’m not a priapic monster. So, you felt confused?”
I squirm under his intense gaze.
“You have no problem being honest with me in print. Your emails always tell me
exactly how you feel. Why can’t you do that in conversation? Do I intimidate you that
much?”
I pick at an imaginary spot on my mother’s blue and cream quilt.
“You beguile me, Christian. Completely overwhelm me. I feel like Icarus flying too
close to the Sun,” I whisper.
He gasps.
“Well, I think you’ve got that the wrong way around,” he whispers.
“What?”
“Oh, Anastasia, you’ve bewitched me. Isn’t it obvious?”
No, not to me. Bewitched... my inner goddess is staring open-mouthed. Even she
doesn’t believe this.
“You’ve still not answered my question. Write me an email, please. But right now, I’d
really like to sleep. Can I stay?”
“Do you want to stay?” I can’t hide the hope in my voice.
“You wanted me here.”
“You haven’t answered my question.”
“I’ll write you an email,” he mutters petulantly.
Standing, he empties his jeans pockets of BlackBerry, keys, wallet, and money. Holy
cow, men carry a lot of crap in their pockets. He strips off his watch, his shoes, socks, and
jeans and places his jacket over my chair. He walks round to the other side of the bed and
slides in.
“Lie down,” he orders.
I slip slowly under the covers, wincing slightly, staring at him. Jeez... he’s staying. I
think I’m numb with elated shock. He leans up on one elbow staring down at me.“If you are going to cry. Cry in front of me. I need to know.”
“Do you want me to cry?”
“Not particularly. I just want to know how you’re feeling. I don’t want you slipping
through my fingers. Switch the light off. It’s late, and we both have to work tomorrow.”
So here... and still so bossy, but I can’t complain, he’s in my bed. I don’t quite un-
derstand why... maybe I should weep more often in front of him. I switch off the bedside
light.
“Lie on your side, facing away from me,” he murmurs in the darkness.
I roll my eyes in the full knowledge that he cannot see me, but I do as I’m told. Gin-
gerly, he moves over and puts his arms around me and pulls me to his chest... oh my.
“Sleep, baby,” he whispers, and I feel his nose in my hair as he inhales deeply.
Holy cow. Christian Grey is sleeping with me, and in the comfort and solace of his
arms, I drift into a peaceful sleep.The candle flame is too hot. It flickers and dances in the over-warm breeze, a breeze that
brings no respite from the heat. Soft gossamer wings flutter to and fro in the dark, sprin-
kling dusty scales in the circle of light. I’m struggling to resist, but I’m drawn. And then
it’s so bright, and I am flying too close to the sun, dazzled by the light, fried and melting
from the heat, weary in my endeavors to stay airborne. I am so warm. The heat... it’s
stifling, overpowering. It wakes me.
I open my eyes, and I’m draped in Christian Grey. He’s wrapped around me like a vic-
tory flag. He’s fast asleep with his head on my chest, his arm over me, holding me close,
one of his legs thrown over and hooked around both of mine. He’s suffocating me with
his body heat, and he’s heavy. I take a moment to absorb that he’s still in my bed and fast
asleep, and it’s light outside – morning. He has spent the whole night with me.
My right arm is stretched, no doubt in search of a cool spot, and as I process the fact
that he’s still with me, the thought occurs that I can touch him. He’s asleep. Tentatively, I
lift my hand and run the tips of my fingers down his back. Deep in his throat, I hear a faint
distressed groan, and he stirs. He nuzzles my chest, inhaling deeply as he wakes. Sleepy,
blinking gray eyes meet mine beneath his tousled mop of hair.
“Good morning,” he mumbles and frowns. “Jesus, even in my sleep I’m drawn to
you.” He moves slowly, unpeeling his limbs from me as he gets his bearings. I becomeaware of his erection against my hip. He notices my wide-eyed reaction, and he smiles a
slow sexy smile.
“Hmm... this has possibilities, but I think we should wait until Sunday.” He leans
down and nuzzles my ear with his nose.
I flush, but then I feel seven shades of scarlet from his heat.
“You’re very hot,” I murmur.
“You’re not so bad yourself,” he murmurs and presses himself against me, sugges-
tively.
I flush some more. That’s not what I meant. He props himself up on his elbow gazing
down at me, amused. He bends, and to my surprise, plants a gentle kiss on my lips.
“Sleep well?” he asks.
I nod, staring up at him, and I realize that I’ve slept very well except maybe for the last
half-hour when I was too hot.
“So did I.” He frowns. “Yes, really well.” He raises his eyebrows in confused surprise.
“What’s the time?”
I glance at my alarm.
“It’s 7:30.”
“7:30... shit.” He scrambles out of bed and drags on his jeans.
It is my turn to look amused as I sit up. Christian Grey is late and flustered. This is
something I have never seen before. I belatedly realize that my behind is no longer sore.
“You are such a bad influence on me. I have a meeting. I have to go – I have to be in
Portland at eight. Are you smirking at me?”
“Yes.”
He grins.
“I’m late. I don’t do late. Another first, Miss Steele.” He pulls on his jacket and then
bends down and grasps my head, his hands on either side.
“Sunday,” he says, and the word is pregnant with an unspoken promise. Everything
deep in my body uncurls and then clenches in delicious anticipation, the feeling is exqui-
site.
Holy hell, if my mind could just keep up with my body. He leans forward and kisses
me quickly. He grabs his stuff from my side table and his shoes – which he doesn’t put on.
“Taylor will come and sort your Beetle. I was serious. Don’t drive it. I’ll see you at
my place on Sunday. I’ll email you a time.” And like a whirlwind, he’s gone.
Oh my, Christian Grey spent the night with me, and I feel rested. And there was no sex,
only cuddling. He told me he never slept with anyone – but he’s slept three times with me.
I grin and slowly climb out of my bed. I feel more optimistic than I have for the last day
or so. I head for the kitchen, needing a cup of tea.
After breakfast, I shower and dress quickly for my last day at Clayton’s. It is the end
of an era – goodbye to Mr. & Mrs. Clayton, WSU, Vancouver, the apartment, my Beetle. I
glance at the mean machine – it’s only 7:52. I have time.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Assault and Battery: The after-effects
Date: May 27 2011 08:05To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
You wanted to know why I felt confused after you – which euphemism should we ap-
ply - spanked, punished, beat, assaulted me. Well during the whole alarming process I
felt demeaned, debased and abused. And much to my mortification, you’re right, I was
aroused, and that was unexpected. As you are well aware, all things sexual are new to
me – I only wish I was more experienced and therefore more prepared. I was shocked to
feel aroused.
What really worried me was how I felt afterwards. And that’s more difficult to articulate.
I was happy that you were happy. I felt relieved that it wasn’t as painful as I thought it
would be. And when I was lying in your arms, I felt – sated. But I feel very uncomfort-
able, guilty even, feeling that way. It doesn’t sit well with me, and I’m confused as a
result. Does that answer your question?
I hope the world of Mergers and Acquisitions is as stimulating as ever... and that you
weren’t too late.
Thank you for staying with me.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Free Your Mind
Date: May 27 2011 08:24
To: Anastasia Steele
Interesting... if slightly overstated title heading Miss Steele.
To answer your points:
• I’ll go with spanking – as that’s what it was.
• So you felt demeaned, debased, abused & assaulted – how very Tess Durbey-
field of you. I believe it was you who decided on the debasement if I remember
correctly. Do you really feel like this or do you think you ought to feel like this?
Two very different things. If that is how you feel, do you think you could just try
and embrace these feelings, deal with them, for me? That’s what a submis-
sive would do.
• I am grateful for your inexperience. I value it, and I’m only beginning to under-
stand what it means. Simply put... it means that you are mine in every way.
• Yes, you were aroused, which in turn was very arousing, there’s nothing wrong
with that.
• Happy does not even begin to cover how I felt. Ecstatic joy comes close.
• Punishment spanking hurts far more than sensual spanking – so that’s about
as hard as it gets, unless of course you commit some major transgression, in
which case I’ll use some implement to punish you with. My hand was very
sore. But I like that.
• I felt sated too - more so than you could ever know.
• Don’t waste your energy on guilt, feelings of wrongdoing etc. We are consent-
ing adults and what we do behind closed doors is between ourselves. You
need to free your mind and listen to your body.
• The world of M&A is not nearly as stimulating as you are Miss Steele.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.Holy crap... mine in every way. My breath hitches.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Consenting Adults!
Date: May 27 2011 08:26
To: Christian Grey
Aren’t you in a meeting?
I’m very glad your hand was sore.
And if I listened to my body, I’d be in Alaska by now.
Ana
PS: I will think about embracing these feelings.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: You Didn’t Call the Cops
Date: May 27 2011 08:35
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
I am in a meeting discussing the futures market if you’re really interested.
For the record - you stood beside me knowing what I was going to do.
You didn’t at any time ask me to stop – you didn’t use either safe word.
You are an adult – you have choices.
Quite frankly, I’m looking forward to the next time my palm is ringing with pain.
You’re obviously not listening to the right part of your body.
Alaska is very cold and no place to run. I would find you.
I can track your cell phone – remember?
Go to work.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I scowl at the screen. He’s right of course. It’s my choice. Hmm. Is he serious about com-
ing to find me, should I decide to escape for a while? My mind flits briefly to my mother’s
offer. I hit reply.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Stalker
Date: May 27 2011 08:36
To: Christian Grey
Have you sought therapy for your stalker tendencies?
AnaFrom: Christian Grey
Subject: Stalker? Me?
Date: May 27 2011 08:38
To: Anastasia Steele
I pay the eminent Dr. Flynn a small fortune with regard to my stalker and other tendencies.
Go to work.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Expensive Charlatans
Date: May 27 2011 08:40
To: Christian Grey
May I humbly suggest you seek a second opinion?
I am not sure that Dr. Flynn is very effective.
Miss Steele
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Second Opinions
Date: May 27 2011 08:43
To: Anastasia Steele
Not that it’s any of your business, humble or otherwise, but Dr. Flynn is the second
opinion.
You will have to speed, in your new car, putting yourself at unnecessary risk – I think
that’s against the rules.
GO TO WORK.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: SHOUTY CAPITALS
Date: May 27 2011 08:47
To: Christian Grey
As the object of your stalker tendencies – I think it is my business actually.
I haven’t signed yet. So rules schmules. And I don’t start until 9:30.
Miss Steele
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Descriptive Linguistics
Date: May 27 2011 08:49To: Anastasia Steele
Schmules? Not sure where that appears in Webster’s Dictionary
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Descriptive Linguistics
Date: May 27 2011 08:52
To: Christian Grey
It’s between control freak and stalker.
And descriptive linguistics is a hard limit for me.
Will you stop bothering me now?
I’d like to go to work in my new car.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Challenging but amusing Young Women
Date: May 27 2011 08:56
To: Anastasia Steele
My palm is twitching.
Drive safely Miss Steele.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
The Audi is a joy to drive. It has power steering. Wanda, my Beetle, has no power in it at
all – anywhere, so my daily workout, which was driving my Beetle, will cease. Oh, but I
will have a personal trainer to contend with, according to Christian’s rules. I frown. I hate
exercising.
While I am driving, I try and analyze our email exchange. He’s a patronizing son-of-
a-bitch sometimes. And then I think of Grace and I feel guilty. But of course, she wasn’t
his birth mother. Hmm that’s a whole world of unknown pain. Well, patronizing son-of-
a-bitch works well then. Yes. I’m an adult, thank you for reminding me, Christian Grey,
and it is my choice. The problem is, I just want Christian, not all his... baggage – and right
now he has a 747 hold’s worth of baggage. Could I just lie back and embrace it? Like a
submissive? I’ve said I’d try. It’s an awfully big ask.
I pull into the parking lot at Clayton’s. As I make my way in, I can hardly believe
it’s my last day. Fortunately, the store is busy and time passes quickly. At lunchtime, Mr.
Clayton summons me from the stockroom. He’s standing beside a motorcycle courier.“Miss Steele?” the courier asks. I frown questioningly at Mr. Clayton, who shrugs,
as puzzled as me. My heart sinks. What has Christian sent me now? I sign for the small
package and open it straight away. It’s a BlackBerry. My heart sinks further. I switch it on.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: BlackBerry ON LOAN
Date: May 27 2011 11:15
To: Anastasia Steele
I need to be able to contact you at all times, and since this is your most honest form of
communication, I figured you needed a BlackBerry.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Consumerism Gone Mad
Date: May 27 2011 13:22
To: Christian Grey
I think you need to call Dr. Flynn right now.
Your stalker tendencies are running wild.
I am at work. I will email you when I get home.
Thank you for yet another gadget.
I wasn’t wrong when I said you were the ultimate consumer.
Why do you do this?
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Sagacity from one so young
Date: May 27 2011 13:24
To: Anastasia Steele
Fair point-well made, as ever Miss Steele.
Dr. Flynn is on vacation.
And I do this because I can.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I put the thing in my back pocket, hating it already. Emailing Christian is addictive, but
I am supposed to be working. It buzzes once against my behind... how apt, I think ironi-
cally, but summoning all my willpower, I ignore it.
At four, Mr. and Mrs. Clayton gather all the other employees in the shop, and during
a hair-curlingly embarrassing speech, present me with a check for three hundred dollars.
In that moment, three weeks of – exams, graduation, intense, fucked-up billionaires, de-flowering, hard & soft limits, playrooms with no consoles, helicopter rides – and the fact
that I will move tomorrow, all well up inside me. Amazingly, I hold myself together. My
subconscious is in awe. I hug the Claytons hard. They have been kind and generous em-
ployers, and I will miss them.
Kate is climbing out of her car when I arrive home.
“What’s that?” she says accusingly, pointing at the Audi. I can’t resist.
“It’s a car,” I quip. She narrows her eyes, and for a brief moment, I wonder if she’s go-
ing to put me across her knee too. “My graduation present.” I try and act nonchalant. Yes,
I get expensive cars given to me everyday. Her mouth drops open.
“Generous, over-the-top bastard, isn’t he?”
I nod.
“I did try not to accept it, but frankly, it’s just not worth the fight.”
Kate purses her lips.
“No wonder you’re so overwhelmed. I did note that he stayed.”
“Yeah.” I smile wistfully.
“Shall we finish packing?”
I nod and follow her inside. I check the email from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Sunday
Date: May 27 2011 13:40
To: Anastasia Steele
Shall I see you at 1 p.m. Sunday?
The doctor will be at Escala to see you at 1:30.
I’m leaving for Seattle now.
I hope your move goes well, and I look forward to Sunday.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Jeez, he could be discussing the weather. I decide to email him once we’ve finished pack-
ing, he can be such fun one minute, and then he can be so formal and stuffy. It’s difficult
to keep up. Honestly, it’s like an email to an employee. I roll my eyes at it defiantly and
join Kate to pack.
Kate and I are in the kitchen when there’s a knock at the door. Taylor stands on the porch,
looking immaculate in his suit. I notice the trace of ex-army in his buzz cut, trim physique,
and his cool stare.
“Miss Steele,” he says. “I’ve come for your car.”“Oh yes, of course. Come in, I’ll fetch the keys.”
Surely this is above and beyond the call of duty. I wonder again at Taylor’s job descrip-
tion. I hand him the keys, and we walk in an uncomfortable silence for me - toward the
light blue Beetle. I open the door and remove the flashlight from the glove box. That’s it.
I have nothing else that’s personal in the Wanda. Goodby,, Wanda. Thank you. I caress her
roof as I close the passenger door.
“How long have you worked for Mr. Grey?” I ask.
“Four years, Miss Steele.”
Suddenly, I have an overwhelming urge to bombard him with questions. What this
man must know about Christian, all his secrets. But then he’s probably signed an NDA.
I look nervously at him. He has the same taciturn expression as Ray, and I warm to him.
“He’s a good man, Miss Steele,” he says, and he smiles slightly. With that, he gives me
a little nod, climbs into my car, and drives away.
Apartment, Beetle, Claytons – it’s all change now. I shake my head as I wander back
inside. And the biggest change of all is Christian Grey. Taylor thinks he’s a good man.
Can I believe him?
José joins us with a Chinese take-out at eight. We’re done. We’re packed and ready
to go. He brings several bottles of beer, and Kate and I sit on the couch while he’s cross-
legged on the floor between us. We watch crap TV, drink beer, and as the evening wears
on, we fondly and loudly reminisce as the beer takes effect. It’s been a good four years.
The atmosphere between José and I has returned to normal, the attempted kiss forgot-
ten. Well, it’s been swept under the rug that my inner goddess is lying on, eating grapes
and tapping her fingers, waiting not so patiently for Sunday. There’s a knock on the door,
and my heart leaps into my throat. Is it?
Kate answers the door and is nearly knocked off her feet by Elliot. He seizes her in a
Hollywood-style clinch that moves quickly into a European art house embrace. Honestly...
get a room. José and I stare at each other. I’m appalled at their lack of modesty.
“Shall we walk down to the bar?” I ask José, who nods frantically. We are too uncom-
fortable with the unrestrained sexing unfolding in front of us. Kate looks up at me, flushed
and bright-eyed.
“José and I are going for a quick drink.” I roll my eyes at her. Ha! I can still roll my
eyes in my own time.
“Okay,” she grins.
“Hi Elliot, bye Elliot.”
He winks a big blue eye at me, and José and I are out of the door, giggling like teenag-
ers.
As we stroll down to the bar, I put my arm through José’s. God, he’s so uncomplicated
- I hadn’t really appreciated that before.
“You’ll still come to the opening of my show, won’t you?”
“Of course, José, when is it?”
“June 9.”
“What day is that?” I suddenly panic.
“It’s a Thursday.”“Yeah I should make that... and you will visit us in Seattle?”
“Try and stop me.” He grins.
It’s late when I arrive back from the bar. Kate and Elliot are nowhere to be seen but boy
can they be heard. Holy shit. I hope I’m not that loud. I know Christian isn’t. I flush at
the thought and escape to my room. After a brief not-at-all-awkward-thank-goodness hug,
José has gone. I don’t know when I’ll see him again, probably his photographic show, and
once again, I’m blown away that he finally has an exhibition. I shall miss him and his boy-
ish charm. I couldn’t bring myself to tell him about the Beetle, I know he’ll freak when he
finds out, and I can only deal with one man at a time freaking out at me. Once in my room,
I check the mean machine, and of course, there’s an email from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Where Are You?
Date: May 27 2011 22:14
To: Anastasia Steele
‘I am at work. I will email you when I get home.’
Are you still at work or have you packed your phone, BlackBerry and MacBook?
Call me, or I may be forced to call Elliot.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Crap... José... shit.
I grab my phone. Five missed calls and one voice message. Tentatively, I listen to the
message. It’s Christian.
‘I think you need to learn to manage my expectations. I am not a patient man. If you
say you are going to contact me when you finish work, then you should have the decency to
do so. Otherwise, I worry, and it’s not an emotion I’m familiar with, and I don’t tolerate it
very well. Call me.’
Double crap. Will he ever give me a break? I scowl at the phone. He is suffocating
me. With a deep dread uncurling in my stomach, I scroll down to his number and press
dial. My heart is in my mouth as I wait for him to answer. He’d probably like to beat seven
shades of shit out of me. The thought is depressing.
“Hi,” he says softly, and his response knocks me off balance because I am expecting
his anger, but if anything, he sounds relieved.
“Hi,” I murmur.
“I was worried about you.”“I know. I’m sorry I didn’t reply, but I’m fine.”
He pauses for a beat.
“Did you have a pleasant evening?” He is crisply polite.
“Yes. We finished packing and Kate and I shared a Chinese take-out with José.” I close
my eyes tightly as I say José’s name. Christian says nothing.
“How about you?” I ask to fill the sudden deafening chasm of silence. I will not let
him guilt me out about José.
Eventually, he sighs.
“I went to a fundraising dinner. It was deathly dull. I left as soon as I could.”
He sounds so sad and resigned. My heart clenches. I picture him all those nights ago
sat at the piano in his huge living room and the unbearable bittersweet melancholy of the
music he was playing.
“I wish you were here,” I whisper, because I have an urge to hold him. Soothe him.
Even though he won’t let me. I want his proximity.
“Do you?” he murmurs blandly. Holy mackerel. This doesn’t sound like him, and my
scalp prickles with dawning apprehension.
“Yes,” I breathe. After an eternity, he sighs.
“I’ll see you Sunday?”
“Yes, Sunday,” I murmur, and a thrill courses through my body.
“Goodnight.”
“Goodnight, Sir.”
My address catches him unawares, I can tell by his sharp intake of breath.
“Good luck with your move tomorrow, Anastasia.” His voice is soft. And we’re both
hanging on the phone like teenagers, neither wanting to hang up.
“You hang up,” I whisper. Finally, I sense his smile.
“No, you hang up.” And I know he’s grinning.
“I don’t want to.”
“Neither do I.”
“Were you very angry with me?”
“Yes.”
“Are you still?”
“No.”
“So you’re not going to punish me?”
“No. I’m an in-the-moment kind of guy.”
“I’ve noticed.”
“You can hang up now, Miss Steele.”
“Do you really want me to, Sir?”
“Go to bed, Anastasia.”
“Yes, Sir.”
We both stay on the line.
“Do you ever think you’ll be able to do what you’re told?” He’s amused and exasper-
ated at once.
“Maybe. We’ll see after Sunday.” And I press ‘end’ on the phone.Elliot stands and admires his handiwork. He has re-plugged our TV into the satellite sys-
tem in our Pike Place Market apartment. Kate and I flop on to the couch giggling, im-
pressed by his prowess with a power drill. The flat screen looks odd against the brickwork
of the converted warehouse, but no doubt I will get used to it.
“See, baby, easy.” He grins a wide white-toothed smile at Kate, and she almost literally
dissolves into the couch.
I roll my eyes at the pair of them.
“I’d love to stay, baby, but my sister is back from Paris. It’s a compulsory family din-
ner tonight.”
“Can you come by after?” Kate asks tentatively, all soft and un-Katelike.
I stand and make my way over to the kitchen area on the pretense of unpacking one of
the crates. They are going to get icky.
“I’ll see if I can escape,” he promises.
“I’ll come down with you.” Kate smiles.
“Laters, Ana.” Elliot grins.
“Bye, Elliot. Say hi to Christian from me.”
“Just hi?” His eyebrows shoot up suggestively.
“Yes.” I flush. He winks at me, and I go crimson as he follows Kate out of the apart-
ment.
Elliot is adorable and so different from Christian. He’s warm, open, physical, very
physical, too physical, with Kate. They can barely keep their hands off each other – to be
honest it’s embarrassing - and I am pea-green with envy.
Kate returns about twenty minutes later with pizza, and we sit, surrounded by crates,
in our new open space, eating straight from the box. Kate’s dad has done us proud. The
apartment is not large, but it’s big enough, three bedrooms and a large living space that
looks out on to Pike Place Market itself. It’s all solid wood floors and red brick, and the
kitchen tops are smooth concrete, very utilitarian, very now. We both love that we will be
in the heart of the city.
At eight the entry-phone buzzes. Kate leaps up - and my heart leaps into my mouth.
“Delivery, Miss Steele, Miss Kavanagh.” Disappointment flows freely and unexpect-
edly through my veins. It’s not Christian.
“Second floor, apartment two.”
Kate buzzes the delivery boy in. His mouth falls open when he sees Kate, all tight
jeans, t-shirt, hair piled high with escaping tendrils. She has that effect on men. He holds
a bottle of champagne with a helicopter-shaped balloon attached. She gives him a dazzling
smile to send him on his way and proceeds to read the card out to me.Ladies, Good luck in your new home, Christian Grey.
Kate shakes her head in disapproval.
“Why can’t he just write ‘from Christian’? And what’s with the weird helicopter bal-
loon?”
“Charlie Tango.”
“What?”
“Christian flew me to Seattle in his helicopter.” I shrug.
Kate stares at me open mouthed. I have to say – I love these occasions – Katherine Ka-
vanagh, silent and floored, they are so rare. I take a brief and luxurious moment to enjoy it.
“Yep, he has a helicopter, which he flew himself,” I state proudly.
“Of course the obscenely rich bastard has a helicopter. Why didn’t you tell me?” Kate
looks accusingly at me, but she’s smiling, shaking her head in disbelief.
“I’ve had a lot on my mind lately.”
She frowns.
“Are you going to be okay while I’m away?”
“Of course.” I answer reassuringly. New city, no job... nut-job boyfriend.
“Did you give him our address?
“No, but stalking is one of his specialties.” I muse, matter-of-fact.
Kate’s brow knits further.
“Somehow I’m not surprised. He worries me, Ana. At least it’s a good champagne
and it’s chilled.”
Of course, only Christian would send chilled champagne or get his secretary to do it...
or maybe Taylor. We open it there and then and find our teacups - they were the last items
to be packed.
“Bollinger Grande Année Rosé 1999, an excellent vintage.” I grin at Kate, and we
clink teacups.
I wake early to a gray Sunday morning after a surprisingly refreshing night’s sleep and lie
awake staring at my crates. You should really be unpacking these, my subconscious nags,
pursing her harpy lips together. No... today’s the day. My inner goddess is beside herself,
hopping from foot to foot. Anticipation hangs heavy and portentous over my head like a
dark tropical storm cloud. Butterflies flood my belly – as well as a darker, carnal, capti-
vating ache as I try to imagine what he will do to me... and of course, I have to sign that
damned contract or do I? I hear the ping of incoming mail from the mean machine on the
floor beside my bed.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: My Life in Numbers
Date: May 29 2011 08:04
To: Anastasia SteeleIf you drive you’ll need this access code for the underground garage at Escala: 146963
Park in bay 5 – it’s one of mine.
Code for the elevator: 1880
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: An excellent Vintage
Date: May 29 2011 08:08
To: Christian Grey
Yes Sir. Understood.
Thank you for the champagne and the blow-up Charlie Tango, which is now tied to my
bed.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Envy
Date: May 29 2011 08:11
To: Anastasia Steele
You’re welcome.
Don’t be late.
Lucky Charlie Tango.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I roll my eyes at his bossiness, but his last line makes me smile. I head for the bathroom,
wondering if Elliot made it back last night and trying hard to rein in my nerves.
I can drive the Audi in high-heels! At 12:55 p.m. precisely, I pull into the garage at
Escala and park in bay five. How many bays does he own? The Audi SUV is there, the
R8, and two smaller Audi SUVs... hmm. I check my seldom-worn mascara in the light up
vanity mirror on my sunshield. Didn’t have one of these in the Beetle.
Go girl! My inner goddess has her pom poms in hand - she’s in cheerleading mode.
In the infinity mirrors of the elevator, I check out my plum dress, well – Kate’s plum dress.
The last time I wore this, he wanted to peel it off me. My body clenches at the thought.
Oh my, the feeling is just exquisite, and I catch my breath. I’m wearing the underwear that
Taylor bought for me. I flush at the thought of his buzz-cut roaming the aisles of AgentProvocateur or wherever he bought it. The doors open, and I’m facing the foyer of apart-
ment number one.
Taylor stands at the double doors as I step out of the elevator.
“Good afternoon, Miss Steele,” he says.
“Oh please call me, Ana.”
“Ana,” he smiles.
“Mr. Grey is expecting you.”
I bet he is.
Christian is seated on his living room couch reading the Sunday papers. He glances up
as Taylor directs me into the living area. The room is exactly as I remember it – it’s been
a whole week since I’ve been here – but it feels so much longer. Christian looks cool and
calm – actually, he looks heavenly. He’s in a loose white linen shirt and jeans, no shoes or
socks. His hair is tousled and unkempt, and his gray eyes twinkle wickedly at me. He is
jaw-droppingly handsome. He rises and strolls towards me, an amused appraising smile
on his beautiful sculptured lips.
I stand immobilized at the entrance of the room, paralyzed by his beauty and the sweet
anticipation of what’s to come. The familiar charge between us is there, sparking slowly
in my belly, drawing me to him.
“Hmm... that dress,” he murmurs approvingly as he gazes down at me. “Welcome
back, Miss Steele,” he whispers, and clasping my chin, he leans down and proffers a gentle
light kiss on my lips. The touch of his lips to mine reverberates throughout my body. My
breath hitches.
“Hi,” I whisper as I flush.
“You’re on time. I like punctual. Come.” He takes my hand and leads me to the
couch. “I wanted to show you something,” he says as we sit. He hands me the Seattle
Times. On page eight, there’s a photograph of the two of us together at the graduation
ceremony. Holy crap. I’m in the paper. I check the caption.
Christian Grey and friend at the graduation ceremony at WSU Vancouver.
I laugh.
“So I’m your ‘friend’ now.”
“So it would appear. And it’s in the newspaper, so it must be true.” He smirks.
Sitting beside me, his whole body is turned toward me, one of his legs tucked under the
other. Reaching over, he tucks my hair behind my ear with his long index finger. My body
comes alive at his touch, waiting and needful.
“So, Anastasia, you have a much better idea of what I’m about since you were last
here.”
“Yes.” Where’s he going with this?
“And yet you’ve returned.”
I nod shyly, and his gray eyes blaze. He shakes his head slightly as if he’s struggling
with the idea.“Have you eaten?” he asks out of the blue.
Shit.
“No.”
“Are you hungry?” He’s really trying not to look annoyed.
“Not for food,” I whisper, and his nostrils flare slightly in reaction.
He leans forward and whispers in my ear.
“You are as eager as ever, Miss Steele, and just to let you into a little secret, so am I.
But Dr. Greene is due here shortly.” He sits up. “I wish you’d eat,” he scolds me mildly.
My heated blood cools. Holy cow – the doctor. I’d forgotten.
“What can you tell me about Dr. Greene?” I ask to distract us both.
“She’s the best Ob/Gyn in Seattle. What more can I say?” He shrugs.
“I thought I was seeing your doctor, and don’t tell me you’re really a woman, because
I won’t believe you.”
He gives me a don’t-be-ridiculous look.
“I think it’s more appropriate that you see a specialist. Don’t you?” he says mildly.
I nod. Holy Moses, if she’s the best Ob/Gyn, he’s scheduled her to see me on a Sunday
– at lunchtime! I cannot begin to imagine how much that costs. Christian frowns suddenly
as if recalling something unpleasant.
“Anastasia, my mother would like you to come to dinner this evening. I believe Elliot
is asking Kate too. I don’t know how you feel about that. It will be odd for me to introduce
you to my family.”
Odd? Why?
“Are you ashamed of me?” I can’t keep the wounded hurt out of my voice.
“Of course not.” He rolls his eyes at me.
“Why is it odd?”
“Because I’ve never done it before.”
“Why are you allowed to roll your eyes, and I’m not?”
He blinks at me.
“I wasn’t aware that I was.”
“Neither am I usually,” I snap at him.
Christian glares at me, speechless. Taylor appears at the doorway.
“Dr. Greene is here, Sir.”
“Show her up to Miss Steele’s room.”
Miss Steele’s room!
“Ready for some contraception?” he asks as he stands and holds out his hand to me.
“You’re not going to come as well are you?” I gasp, shocked.
He laughs.
“I’d pay very good money to watch, believe me, Anastasia, but I don’t think the good
doctor would approve.”
I take his hand, and he pulls me up into his arms and kisses me deeply. I clutch on
to his arms, taken by surprise. His hand is in my hair holding my head, and he pulls me
against him, his forehead against mine.
“I’m so glad you’re here,” he whispers. “I can’t wait to get you naked.”Dr. Greene is tall, blond, and immaculate, dressed in a royal blue suit. I’m reminded of the
women who work in Christian’s office. She’s like an identikit model – another Stepford
blonde. Her long hair is swept up in an elegant chignon. She must be in her early forties.
“Mr. Grey.” She shakes Christian’s outstretched hand.
“Thank you for coming at such short notice,” Christian says.
“Thank you for making it worth my while, Mr. Grey. Miss Steele.” She smiles, her
eyes cool and assessing.
We shake hands, and I know she’s one of those women who doesn’t tolerate fools
gladly. Like Kate. I like her immediately. She gives Christian a pointed stare, and after an
awkward beat, he takes his cue.
“I’ll be downstairs,” he mutters, and he leaves what will be my bedroom.
“Well Miss Steele. Mr. Grey is paying me a small fortune to attend to you. What can
I do for you?”
After a thorough examination and lengthy discussion, Dr. Greene and I decide on the mini
pill. She writes me a pre-paid prescription and instructs me to pick them up tomorrow. I
love her no-nonsense attitude – she has lectured me until she’s as blue as her dress about
taking it at the same time every day. And I can tell she’s burning with curiosity about my
so-called relationship with Mr. Grey. I don’t give her any details. Somehow I don’t thinkshe’d look so calm and collected if she’d seen his Red Room of Pain. I flush as we pass
its closed door and head back downstairs to the art gallery that is Christian’s living room.
Christian is reading, seated on his couch. A breathtaking aria is playing on the music
system, swirling round him, cocooning him, filling the room with a sweet, soulful song.
For a moment, he looks serene. He turns and glances at us when we enter and smiles
warmly at me.
“Are you done?” he asks as if he’s genuinely interested. He points the remote at a sleek
white box beneath the fireplace that houses his iPod, and the exquisite melody fades but
continues in the background. Standing, he strolls towards us.
“Yes, Mr. Grey. Look after her; she’s a beautiful, bright young woman.”
Christian is taken aback – as am I. What an inappropriate thing for a doctor to say. Is
she giving him some kind of not so subtle warning? Christian recovers himself.
“I fully intend to,” he mutters, bemused.
Gazing at him, I shrug, embarrassed.
“I’ll send you my bill,” she says crisply as she shakes his hand.
“Good day, and good luck to you, Ana.” She smiles, her eyes crinkling as she does
when we shake hands.
Taylor appears from nowhere to escort her through the double doors and out to the
elevator. How does he do that? Where does he lurk?
“How was that?” Christian asks.
“Fine, thank you. She said that I had to abstain from all sexual activity for the next
four weeks.”
Christian’s mouth drops open in shock, and I cannot keep a straight face any longer and
grin at him like an idiot.
“Gotcha!”
He narrows his eyes, and I immediately stop laughing. In fact, he looks rather forbid-
ding. Oh shit. My subconscious quails in the corner as all the blood drains from my face,
and I imagine him putting me across his knee again.
“Gotcha!” he says and smirks. He grabs me around my waist and pulls me up against
him. “You are incorrigible, Miss Steele,” he murmurs, staring down into my eyes as he
weaves his fingers into my hair, holding me firmly in place. He kisses me, hard, and I cling
on to his muscular arms for support.
“As much as I’d like to take you here, now, you need to eat and so do I. I don’t want
you passing out on me later,” he murmurs against my lips.
“Is that all you want me for – my body?” I whisper.
“That and your smart mouth,” he breathes.
He kisses me again passionately, and then abruptly releases me, taking my hand and
leading me to the kitchen. I am reeling. One minute we’re joking and the next... I fan
my heated face. He’s just sex on legs, and now I have to recover my equilibrium and eat
something. The aria is still playing in the background.
“What’s the music?”
“Villa Lobos, an aria from Bachianas Brasileiras. Good, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” I murmur in total agreement.
The breakfast bar is laid for two; Christian takes a salad bowl from the fridge.“Chicken caesar salad okay with you?”
Oh thank heavens, nothing too heavy.
“Yes, fine, thank you.”
I watch as he moves gracefully through his kitchen. He’s so at ease with his body on
one level, but then he doesn’t like to be touched... so maybe deep down he isn’t. No man
is an island, I muse – except perhaps Christian Grey.
“What are you thinking?” he asks, pulling me from my reverie. I flush.
“I was just watching the way you move.”
He raises an eyebrow, amused.
“And?” he says dryly.
I flush some more.
“You’re very graceful.”
“Why thank you, Miss Steele,” he murmurs. He sits down beside me, holding a bottle
of wine. “Chablis?”
“Please.”
“Help yourself to salad,” he says, his voice soft.
“Tell me - what method did you opt for?”
I am momentarily thrown by his question, when I realize he’s talking about Dr. Greene’s
visit.
“Mini pill.”
He frowns.
“And will you remember to take it regularly, at the right time, every day?”
Jeez... of course I will. How does he know? I blush at the thought, probably from one
or more of the fifteen.
“I’m sure you’ll remind me,” I murmur dryly.
He glances at me with amused condescension.
“I’ll put an alarm on my calendar.” He smirks. “Eat.”
The chicken caesar is delicious. To my surprise, I’m famished, and for the first time
since I’ve been with him, I finish my meal before he does. The wine is crisp, clean, and
fruity.
“Eager as ever, Miss Steele?” he smiles down at my empty plate.
I look at him from beneath my lashes.
“Yes,” I whisper.
His breath hitches. And as he stares down at me, I feel the atmosphere between us
slowly shift, evolve... charge. His look goes from dark to smoldering, taking me with him.
He stands, closing the distance between us, and tugs me off my bar stool into his arms.
“Do you want to do this?” he breathes, looking down at me intently.
“I haven’t signed anything.”
“I know – but I’m breaking all the rules these days.”
“Are you going to hit me?”
“Yes, but it won’t be to hurt you. I don’t want to punish you right now. If you’d caught
me yesterday evening, well, that would have been a different story.”
Holy cow. He wants to hurt me... how do I deal with this? I can’t hide the horror on
my face.“Don’t let anyone try and convince you otherwise, Anastasia. One of the reasons
people like me do this is because we either like to give or receive pain. It’s very simple.
You don’t, so I spent a great deal of time yesterday thinking about that.”
He pulls me against him, and his erection presses into my belly. I should run, but I
can’t. I’m drawn to him on some deep, elemental level, that I can’t begin to understand.
“Did you reach any conclusions?” I whisper.
“No, and right now, I just want to tie you up and fuck you senseless. Are you ready
for that?”
“Yes,” I breathe as everything in my body tightens at once... wow.
“Good. Come.” He takes my hand and, leaving all the dirty dishes on the breakfast bar,
and we head upstairs.
My heart starts pounding. This is it. I’m really going to do this. My inner goddess
is spinning like a world-class ballerina, pirouette after pirouette. He opens the door to his
playroom, standing back for me to walk through, and I am once more in the Red Room of
Pain.
It’s the same, the smell of leather, citrus, polish and dark wood, all very sensual. My
blood is running heated and scared through my system – adrenaline mixed with lust and
longing. It’s a heady, potent cocktail. Christian’s stance has changed completely, subtly al-
tered, harder and meaner. He gazes down at me and his eyes are heated, lustful... hypnotic.
“When you’re in here, you are completely mine,” he breathes, each word slow and
measured. “To do with as I see fit. Do you understand?”
His gaze is so intense. I nod, my mouth dry, my heart thumping for a way out of my
chest.
“Take your shoes off,” he orders softly.
I swallow, and rather clumsily, I take them off. He bends and picks them up and de-
posits them beside the door.
“Good. Don’t hesitate when I ask you to do something. Now I’m going to peel you
out of this dress. Something I’ve wanted to do for a few days if I recall. I want you to be
comfortable with your body, Anastasia. You have a beautiful body, and I like to look at it.
It is a joy to behold. In fact, I could gaze at you all day, and I want you unembarrassed and
unashamed of your nakedness. Do you understand?”
“Yes.”
“Yes, what?” He leans over me, glaring.
“Yes, Sir.”
“Do you mean that?” he snaps.
“Yes, Sir.”
“Good. Lift your arms up over your head.”
I do as instructed, and he reaches down and grabs the hem. Slowly, he pulls my dress
up over my thighs, my hips, my belly, my breasts, my shoulders, and over my head. He
stands back to examine me and absentmindedly folds my dress, not taking his eyes off me.
He places it on the large chest beside the door. Reaching up, he pulls at my chin, his touch
searing me.
“You’re biting your lip,” he breathes. “You know what that does to me,” he adds
darkly. “Turn around.”I turn immediately, no hesitation. He unclasps my bra and then taking both straps,
he slowly pulls them down my arms, brushing my skin with his fingers and the tip of his
thumbnails as he slides my bra off. His touch sends shivers down my spine, waking every
nerve ending in my body. He’s standing behind me, so close that I feel the heat radiating
from him, warming me, warming me all over. He pulls my hair so it’s all hanging down my
back, grasps a handful at my nape, and angles my head to one side. He runs his nose down
my exposed neck, inhaling all the way, then back up to my ear. The muscles in my belly
clench, carnal and wanting. Jeez, he’s hardly touched me, and I want him.
“You smell as divine as ever, Anastasia,” he whispers as he places a soft kiss beneath
my ear.
I moan.
“Quiet,” he breathes. “Don’t make a sound.”
Pulling my hair behind me, to my surprise, he starts braiding it in one large braid, his
fingers fast and deft. He ties it with an unseen hair tie when he’s finished and gives it a
quick tug so I’m forced back against him.
“I like your hair braided in here,” he whispers.
Hmm... why?
He releases my hair.
“Turn around,” he orders.
I do as I’m bid, my breathing shallow, fear and longing mixed together. It’s an intoxi-
cating mix.
“When I tell you to come in here, this is how you will dress. Just in your panties. Do
you understand?”
“Yes.”
“Yes, what?” He glowers at me.
“Yes, Sir.”
A trace of a smile lifts the corner of his mouth.
“Good girl.” His eyes burn into mine. “When I tell you to come in here, I expect you
to kneel over there.” He points to a spot beside the door. “Do it now.”
I blink processing his words, turn, and rather clumsily kneel as directed.
“You can sit back on your heels.”
I sit back.
“Place your hands and forearms flat on your thighs. Good. Now part your knees.
Wider. Wider. Perfect. Look down at the floor.”
He walks over to me, and I can see his feet and shins in my field of vision. Naked feet.
I should be taking notes if he wants me to remember. He reaches down and grasps my
braid again, then pulls my head back so I am looking up at him. It’s only just not painful.
“Will you remember this position, Anastasia?”
“Yes, Sir.”
“Good. Stay here, don’t move.” He leaves the room.
I’m on my knees, waiting. Where’s he gone? What is he going to do to me? Time
shifts. I have no idea how long he leaves me like this... a few minutes, five, ten? My
breathing becomes shallower, the anticipation is devouring me from the inside out.And suddenly he’s back – and all at once I’m calmer and more excited in the same
breath. Could I be more excited? I can see his feet. He’s changed his jeans. These are
older, ripped, soft, and over-washed. Holy cow. These jeans are hot. He shuts the door
and hangs something on the back.
“Good girl, Anastasia. You look lovely like that. Well done. Stand up.”
I stand, but I keep my face down.
“You may look at me.”
I peek up at him, and he’s staring at me intently, assessing, but his eyes soften. He’s
taken off his shirt. Oh my... I want to touch him. The top button of his jeans is undone.
“I’m going to chain you now, Anastasia. Give me your right hand.”
I give him my hand. He turns it palm up, and before I know it, he swats the center with
a riding crop I hadn’t noticed is in his right hand. It happens so quickly that the surprise
hardly registers. Even more astonishing – it doesn’t hurt. Well, not much, just a slight
ringing sting.
“How does that feel?” he asks.
I blink at him, confused.
“Answer me.”
“Okay.” I frown.
“Don’t frown.”
I blink and try for impassive. I succeed.
“Did that hurt?”
“No.”
“This is not going to hurt. Do you understand?”
“Yes.” My voice is uncertain. Is it really not going to hurt?
“I mean it,” he says.
Jeez, my breathing is so shallow. Does he know what I’m thinking? He shows me the
crop. It’s brown plaited leather. My eyes jerk up to meet his, and they’re alight with fire
and a trace of amusement.
“We aim to please, Miss Steele,” he murmurs. “Come.” He takes my elbow and moves
me to beneath the grid. He reaches up and takes down some shackles with black leather
cuffs.
“This grid is designed so the shackles move across the grid.”
I glance up. Holy shit – it’s like a subway map.
“We’re going to start here, but I want to fuck you standing up. So we’ll end up by the
wall over there.” He points with the riding crop to where the large wooden X is on the wall.
“Put your hands above your head.”
I oblige immediately, feeling like I’m exiting my body – a casual observer of events as
they unfold around me. This is beyond fascinating, beyond erotic. It’s singularly the most
exciting and scary thing I’ve ever done. I’m entrusting myself to a beautiful man who, by
his own admission, is fifty shades of fucked-up. I suppress the brief thrill of fear. Kate and
Elliot, they know I’m here.
He stands very close as he fastens the cuffs. I’m staring at his chest. His proximity
is heavenly. He smells of body wash and Christian, an inebriating mix, and that drags meback into the now. I want to run my nose and tongue through that smattering of chest hair.
I could just lean forward...
He steps back and gazes at me, his expression hooded, salacious, carnal, and I am help-
less, my hands tied, but just looking at his lovely face, reading his need and longing for me,
I can feel the dampness between my legs. He walks slowly round me.
“You look mighty fine trussed up like this, Miss Steele. And your smart mouth, quiet
for now. I like that.”
Standing in front of me again, he hooks his fingers into my panties, and at a most un-
hurried pace, peels them down my legs, stripping me agonizingly slowly, so that he ends
up kneeling in front of me. Not taking his eyes off mine, he scrunches my panties in his
hand, holds them up to his nose, and inhales deeply. Holy fuck. Did he just do that? He
grins wickedly at me and tucks them into the pocket of his jeans.
Uncoiling from the floor, rising lazily, like a jungle cat, he points the end of the riding
crop at my navel, leisurely circling it – tantalizing me. At the touch of the leather, I quiver
and gasp. He walks round me again, trailing the crop around the middle of my body. On his
second circuit, he suddenly flicks the crop, and it hits me underneath my behind... against
my sex. I cry out in surprise as all my nerve endings stand to attention. I pull against the
restraints. The shock runs through me, and it’s the sweetest strangest, hedonistic feeling.
“Quiet,” he whispers as he walks around me again, the crop slightly higher around the
middle of my body. This time when he flicks it against me in the same place, I’m anticipat-
ing it... oh my. My body convulses at the sweet, stinging bite.
As he makes his way around me, he flicks again, this time hitting my nipple, and I
throw my head back as my nerve endings sing. He hits the other... a brief, swift, sweet
chastisement. My nipples harden and elongate from the assault, and I moan loudly, pulling
on my leather cuffs.
“Does that feel good?” he breathes.
“Yes.”
He hits me again across the buttocks. The crop stings this time.
“Yes what?”
“Yes, Sir,” I whimper.
He comes to a stop... but I can no longer see him. My eyes are closed as I try to absorb
the myriad of sensations coursing through my body. Very slowly, he rains small, biting
licks of the crop down my belly, heading south. I know where this is leading, and I try and
psyche myself up for it – but when he hits my clitoris, I cry out loudly.
“Oh... please!” I groan.
“Quiet,” he orders, and he hits me again on my behind.
I did not expect this to be like this... I am lost. Lost in a sea of sensation. And sud-
denly, he’s dragging the crop against my sex, through my pubic hair, down to the entrance
of my vagina.
“See how wet you are for this, Anastasia. Open your eyes and your mouth.”
I do as I’m told, completely seduced. He pushes the tip of the crop into my mouth, like
my dream. Holy shit.
“See how you taste. Suck. Suck hard, baby.”My mouth closes around the crop as my eyes lock on his. I can taste the rich leather
and the saltiness of my arousal. His eyes are blazing. He’s in his element.
He pulls the tip from my mouth, and he stands forward and grabs me and kisses me
hard, his tongue invading my mouth. Wrapping his arms around me, he pulls me against
him. His chest crushes mine, and I itch to touch, but I can’t, my hands, useless above me.
“Oh, Anastasia, you taste mighty fine,” he breathes. “Shall I make you come?”
“Please,” I beg.
The crop bites my buttock. Ow!
“Please, what?”
“Please, Sir,” I whimper.
He smiles at me, triumphant.
“With this?” He holds the crop up so I can see it.
“Yes, Sir.”
“Are you sure?” He looks sternly at me.
“Yes, please, Sir.”
“Close your eyes.”
I shut the room out, him out... the crop out. He starts small, biting licks of the crop
against my belly once more. Moving down, soft small licks against my clitoris, once,
twice, three times, again and again, until finally, that’s it – I can take no more – and I come,
gloriously, loudly, sagging weakly. His arms curl around me as my legs turn to jelly. I dis-
solve in his embrace, my head against his chest, and I’m mewling and whimpering as the
aftershocks of my orgasm consume me. He lifts me, and suddenly we’re moving, my arms
still tethered above my head, and I can feel the cool wood of the polished cross at my back,
and he’s popping the buttons on his jeans. He puts me down against the cross briefly while
he slides on a condom, and then his hands wrap around my thighs as he lifts me again.
“Lift your legs, baby, wrap them round me.”
I feel so weak, but I do as he asks as he wraps my legs around his hips and positions
himself beneath me. With one thrust, he’s inside me, and I cry out again, listening to his
muffled moan at my ear. My arms are resting on his shoulders as he thrusts into me. Jeez,
it’s deep this way. He thrusts again and again, his face at my neck, his harsh breathing at
my throat. I feel the build up again. Jeez no... not again... I don’t think my body will with-
stand another earth-shattering moment. But I have no choice... and with an inevitability
that’s becoming familiar, I let go and come again, and it’s sweet and agonizing and intense.
I lose all sense of self. Christian follows, shouting his release through clenched teeth and
holding me hard and close as he does.
He pulls out of me swiftly and sets me down against the cross, his body supporting
mine. Unbuckling the cuffs, he frees my hands, and we both sink to the floor. He pulls
me into his lap, cradling me, and I lean my head against his chest. If I had the strength, I’d
touch him, but I don’t. Belatedly, I realize he’s still wearing his jeans.
“Well done, baby,” he murmurs. “Did that hurt?”
“No,” I breathe. I can barely keep my eyes open. Why am I so tired?
“Did you expect it to?” he whispers as he holds me close, his fingers pushing some
escaped tendrils of hair off my face.
“Yes.”“You see most of your fear is in your head, Anastasia,” he pauses. “Would you do it
again?”
I think for a moment as fatigue clouds my brain... Again?
“Yes.” My voice is so soft.
He hugs me tightly.
“Good. So would I,” he murmurs, then leans down and softly kisses the top of my
head.
“And I haven’t finished with you yet.”
Not finished with me yet. Holy Moses. There’s no way I can do any more. I am ut-
terly spent and fighting an overwhelming desire to sleep. I’m leaning against his chest, my
eyes are closed, and he’s wrapped around me – arms and legs – and I feel... safe, and oh so
comfortable. Will he let me sleep, perchance to dream? My mouth quirks up at the silly
thought, and turning my face into Christian’s chest, I inhale his unique scent and nuzzle
him, but immediately he tenses... oh crap. I open my eyes and glance up at him. He’s
staring down at me.
“Don’t,” he breathes in warning.
I flush and look back at his chest in longing. I want to run my tongue through the hair,
kiss him, and for the first time, I notice he has a few random and faint small, round scars
dotted around his chest. Chicken pox? Measles? I think absently.
“Kneel by the door,” he orders as he sits back, putting his hands on his knees, effec-
tively releasing me. No longer warm, the temperature of his voice has dropped several
degrees.
I stumble clumsily up into a standing position and scoot over to the door and kneel
as instructed. I’m shaky and very, very tired, monumentally confused. Who would have
thought I could have found such gratification in this room. Who could have thought it
would be so exhausting? My limbs are deliciously heavy, sated. My inner goddess has a
‘do not disturb’ sign on the outside of her room.
Christian is moving about in the periphery of my vision. My eyes start to droop.
“Boring you, am I, Miss Steele?”
I jump awake, and Christian is standing in front of me, his arms crossed glaring down
at me. Oh shit, caught napping – this is not going to be good. His eyes soften as I gaze up
at him.
“Stand up,” he orders.
I climb warily to my feet. He stares at me, and his mouths quirks up.
“You’re shattered, aren’t you?”
I nod shyly, flushing.
“Stamina, Miss Steele.” He narrows his eyes at me. “I haven’t had my fill of you yet.
Hold out your hands in front as if you’re praying.”
I blink at him. Praying! Praying for you to go easy on me. I do as I’m told. He takes
a cable tie and fastens it around my wrists, tightening the plastic. Holy hell. My eyes fly
to his.
“Look familiar,” he asks, unable to conceal his smile.Jeez... the plastic cable ties. Restocking at Clayton’s! It all becomes clear. I gape up
at him as adrenaline spikes though my body anew. Okay – that’s got my attention – I’m
awake now.
“I have scissors here.” He holds them up for me to see. “I can cut you out of this in a
moment.”
I try to pull my wrists apart, testing my bonds, and as I do, the plastic bites into my
flesh – it’s sore, but if I relax my wrists they’re fine – the tie is not cutting into my skin.
“Come.” He takes my hands and leads me over to the four-poster bed. I notice now
that it has dark red sheets on it and a shackle at each corner.
“I want more – much, much more,” he leans down and whispers in my ear.
And my heartbeat starts pounding again. Oh boy.
“But I’ll make this quick. You’re tired. Hold on to the post,” he says.
I frown. Not on the bed then? I find I can part my hands as I grasp the ornately carved
wooden post.
“Lower,” he orders. “Good. Don’t let go. If you do, I’ll spank you. Understand?”
“Yes, Sir.”
“Good.”
He stands behind me and grasps my hips, and then quickly lifts me backward so I’m
bending forward, holding the post.
“Don’t let go, Anastasia,” he warns. “I’m going to fuck you hard from behind. Hold
the post to support your weight. Understand?”
“Yes.”
He smacks me across my behind with his hand. Ow... It stings.
“Yes, Sir,” I mutter quickly.
“Part your legs.” He puts his leg between mine, and holding my hips, he pushes my
right leg to the side.
“That’s better. After this, I’ll let you sleep.”
Sleep? I’m panting. I’m not thinking of sleep now. He reaches up and gently strokes
my back.
“You have such beautiful skin, Anastasia,” he breathes as he bends down and kisses
me along my spine, gentle feather-light kisses. At the same time, his hands move round to
my front palming my breasts, and as he does this, he traps my nipples between his fingers
and tugs them gently.
I stifle my moan as I feel my whole body respond, coming alive once more for him.
He gently bites and sucks me at my waist, tugging my nipples, and my hands tighten
on the exquisitely carved post. His hands drop away, and I hear the now familiar tear of
foil, and he kicks off his jeans.
“You have such a captivating, sexy ass, Anastasia Steele. What I’d like to do to it.”
His hands smooth and shape each of my buttocks, then his fingers glide down, and he slips
two fingers inside me.
“So wet. You never disappoint, Miss Steele,” he whispers, and I hear the wonder in his
voice. “Hold tight... this is going to be quick, baby.”
He grabs my hips and positions himself, and I brace myself for his assault. But he
reaches over me and grabs my braid near the end and winds it round his wrist to my napeholding my head in place. Very slowly he eases into me, pulling my hair at the same
time... oh the fullness. He eases out of me slowly, and his other hand grabs my hip, hold-
ing tight, and then he slams into me, jolting me forward.
“Hold on, Anastasia!” he shouts through clenched teeth.
I grip harder round the post and push back against him as he continues his merciless
onslaught, again and again, his fingers digging into my hip. My arms are aching, my
legs feel uncertain, my scalp is getting sore from his tugging my hair... and I can feel a
gathering deep inside me. Oh no... and for the first time, I fear my orgasm... if I come...
I’ll collapse. Christian continues to move roughly against me, in me, his breathing harsh,
moaning, groaning. My body is responding... how? I feel a quickening. But suddenly,
Christian stills, slamming really deep.
“Come on, Ana, give it to me,” he groans, and my name on his lips sends me over the
edge as I become all body and spiraling sensation and sweet, sweet release, and then com-
pletely and utterly mindless.
When sense returns, I’m lying on him. He’s on the floor, and I’m lying on top of him,
my back to his front, and I’m staring at the ceiling, all post-coital, glowing, shattered. Oh...
the karabiners, I think absently – I’d forgotten about those. Christian nuzzles my ear.
“Hold up your hands,” he says softly.
My arms feel like they’re made of lead, but I hold them up. He wields the scissors and
passes one blade under the plastic.
“I declare this Ana open,” he breathes, and cuts the plastic.
I giggle and rub my wrists as they’re freed. I feel his grin.
“That is such a lovely sound,” he says wistfully. He sits suddenly, taking me with him
so that I’m once more sitting in his lap.
“That’s my fault,” he says and shifts me so that he can rub my shoulders and arms.
Gently he massages some life back into my limbs
What?
I glance up at him behind me, trying to understand what he means.
“That you don’t giggle more often.”
“I’m not a great giggler,” I mumble sleepily.
“Oh, but when it happens, Miss Steele, ‘tis a wonder and joy to behold.”
“Very flowery, Mr. Grey,” I mutter, trying to keep my eyes open.
His eyes soften, and he smiles.
“I’d say you’re thoroughly fucked and in need of sleep.”
“That wasn’t flowery at all,” I grumble playfully.
He grins and gently lifts me off him and stands, gloriously naked. I wish momentarily
that I were more awake to really appreciate him. Picking up his jeans, he slides them back
on, commando.
“Don’t want to frighten Taylor, or Mrs. Jones for that matter,” he mutters.
Hmm... they must know what a kinky bastard he is. The thought preoccupies me.
He stoops to help me to my feet and leads me to the door, on the back of which hangs a
grey waffle robe. He patiently dresses me as if I’m a small child. I don’t have the strength
to lift my arms. When I’m covered and respectable, he leans down and kisses me gently,
his mouth quirks up in a smile.“Bed,” he says.
Oh... no...
“For sleep,” he adds reassuringly when he sees my expression.
Suddenly, he scoops me up and carries me curled against his chest to the room along
the corridor where earlier today Dr. Greene examined me. My head drops against his chest.
I am exhausted. I don’t remember ever being this tired. Pulling back the duvet, he lays me
down, and even more surprisingly, climbs in beside me and holds me close.
“Sleep now, gorgeous girl,” he whispers, and he kisses my hair.
And before I can make a facetious comment, I’m asleep.Soft lips brush across my temple, leaving sweet tender kisses in their wake, and part of me
wants to turn and respond, but mostly I want to stay asleep. I moan and burrow into my
pillow.
“Anastasia, wake up.” Christian’s voice is soft, cajoling.
“No,” I moan.
“We have to leave in half an hour for dinner at my parents.” He’s amused.
I open my eyes reluctantly. It’s dusk outside. Christian is leaning over, gazing at me
intently.
“Come on sleepy-head. Get up.” He stoops down and kisses me again.
“I’ve bought you a drink. I’ll be downstairs. Don’t go back to sleep, or you’ll be in
trouble,” he threatens, but his tone is mild. He kisses me briefly and exits, leaving me
blinking sleep from my eyes in the cool, stark room.
I’m refreshed but suddenly nervous. Holy cow, I am meeting his folks! He’s just
worked me over with a riding crop and tied me up using a cable tie which I sold him, for
heaven’s sake – and I’m going to meet his parents. It will be Kate’s first time meeting them
too – at least she’ll be there for support. I roll my shoulders. They’re stiff. His demands
for a personal trainer don’t seem so outlandish now, in fact, they’re mandatory if I am to
have any hope of keeping up with him.I climb slowly out of bed and note that my dress is hanging outside the wardrobe and
my bra is on the chair. Where are my panties? I check beneath the chair. Nothing. Then
I remember – he squirreled them away in the pocket of his jeans. I flush at the memory,
after he, I can’t even bring myself to think about it, he was so – barbarous. I frown. Why
hasn’t he given me back my panties?
I steal into the bathroom, bewildered by my lack of underwear. While drying myself
after my enjoyable but far too brief shower, I realize he’s done this on purpose. He wants
me to be embarrassed and ask for my panties back, and he’ll either say yes or no. My inner
goddess grins at me. Hell... two can play that particular game. Resolving there and then
not to ask him for them and not give him that satisfaction, I shall go meet his parents sans
culottes. Anastasia Steele! My subconscious chides me, but I don’t want to listen to her – I
almost hug myself with glee because I know this will drive him crazy.
Back in the bedroom, I put on my bra, slip into my dress, and climb into my shoes. I
remove the braid and hastily brush out my hair, I then glance down at the drink he’s left.
It’s pale pink. What’s this? Cranberry and sparkling water. Hmm... it tastes delicious and
quenches my thirst.
Dashing back into the bathroom, I check myself in the mirror: eyes bright, cheeks
slightly flushed, slightly smug look because of my panty plan, and I head downstairs. Fif-
teen minutes. Not bad, Ana.
Christian is standing by the panoramic window, wearing the grey flannel pants that I
love, the ones that hang in that unbelievably sexy way off his hips, and of course, a white
linen shirt. Doesn’t he have any other colors? Frank Sinatra sings softly over the surround
sound speakers.
Christian turns and smiles as I enter. He looks at me expectantly.
“Hi,” I say softly, and my sphinx-like smile meets his.
“Hi,” he says. “How are you feeling?” His eyes are alight with amusement.
“Good, thanks. You?”
“I feel mighty fine, Miss Steele.”
He is so waiting for me to say something.
“Frank. I never figured you for a Sinatra fan.”
He raises his eyebrows at me, his look speculative.
“Eclectic taste, Miss Steele,” he murmurs, and he paces toward me like a panther until
he’s standing in front of me, his gaze so intense it takes my breath away.
Frank starts crooning... an old song, one of Ray’s favorites. ‘Witchcraft.’ Christian
leisurely traces his fingertips down my cheek, and I feel it all the way down there.
“Dance with me,” he murmurs, his voice husky.
Taking the remote out of his pocket, he turns up the volume and holds his hand out
to me, his gray gaze full of promise and longing and humor. He is totally beguiling, and
I’m bewitched. I place my hand in his. He grins lazily down at me and pulls me into his
embrace, his arm curling around my waist, and he starts to sway.
I put my free hand on his shoulder and grin up at him, caught in his infectious, playful
mood. And he starts to move. Boy can he dance. We cover the floor, from the window to
the kitchen and back again, whirling and turning in time to the music. And he makes it so
effortless for me to follow.We glide around the dining table, over to the piano, and backwards and forwards in
front of the glass wall, Seattle twinkling outside, a dark and magical mural to our dance,
and I can’t help my carefree laugh. He grins down at me as the song comes to a close.
“There’s no nicer witch than you,” he murmurs, then kisses me sweetly. “Well, that’s
bought some color to your cheeks, Miss Steele. Thank you for the dance. Shall we go and
meet my parents?”
“You’re welcome, and yes, I can’t wait to meet them,” I answer breathlessly.
“Do you have everything you need?”
“Oh, yes,” I respond sweetly.
“Are you sure?”
I nod as nonchalantly as I can manage under his intense, amused scrutiny. His face
splits into a huge grin, and he shakes his head.
“Okay. If that’s the way you want to play it, Miss Steele.”
He grabs my hand, collects his jacket which is hanging on one of the barstools, and
leads me through the foyer to the elevator. Oh, the many faces of Christian Grey. Will I
ever be able to understand this mercurial man?
I peek up at him in the elevator. He’s enjoying a private joke, a trace of a smile flirting
with his beautiful mouth. I fear that it may be at my expense. What was I thinking? I’m
going to see his parents, and I’m not wearing any underwear. My subconscious gives me
an unhelpful I told you so expression. In the relative safety of his apartment, it seemed like
a fun, teasing idea. Now, I’m almost outside with No Panties! He peers down at me, and
it’s there, the charge building between us. The amused look disappears from his face and
his expression clouds, his eyes dark... oh my.
The elevator doors open on the ground floor. Christian shakes his head slightly as if
to clear his thoughts and gestures for me to exit before him in a most gentlemanly manner.
Who’s he kidding? He’s no gentleman. He has my panties.
Taylor draws up in the large Audi. Christian opens the rear door for me, and I climb in-
side as elegantly as I can, considering my state of wanton undress. I’m grateful that Kate’s
plum dress is so clingy and hangs to the top of my knees.
We speed up the I-5, both of us quiet, no doubt inhibited by Taylor’s steady presence
in the front. Christian’s mood is almost tangible and seems to shift, the humor dissipating
slowly as we head north. He’s brooding, staring out of the window, and I can feel him
slipping away from me. What is he thinking? I can’t ask him. What can I say in front of
Taylor?
“Where did you learn to dance?” I ask tentatively. He turns to gaze at me, his eyes
unreadable beneath the intermittent light of the passing street lamps.
“Do you really want to know?” he replies softly.
My heart sinks, and now I don’t because I can guess.
“Yes,” I murmur, reluctantly.
“Mrs. Robinson was fond of dancing.”
Oh, my worst suspicions confirmed. She has taught him well, and the thought de-
presses me – there’s nothing I can teach him. I have no special skills.
“She must have been a good teacher.”
“She was,” he says softly.My scalp prickles. Did she have the best of him? Before he became so closed? Or
did she bring him out of himself? He has such a fun, playful side. I smile involuntarily as
I recall being in his arms as he spun me around his living room, so unexpected, and he has
my panties, somewhere.
And then there’s the Red Room of Pain. I rub my wrists reflexively – thin strips of
plastic will do that to a girl. She taught him all that too or ruined him, depending on one’s
point of view. Or perhaps he would have found his way there anyway in spite of Mrs. R.
I realize, in that moment, that I hate her. I hope that I never meet her because I will not be
responsible for my actions if I do. I can’t remember ever feeling this passionately about
anyone, especially someone I’ve never met. Gazing unseeing out of the window, I nurse
my irrational anger and jealousy.
My mind drifts back to the afternoon. Given what I understand of his preferences, I
think he’s been easy on me. Would I do it again? I can’t even pretend to put up an argu-
ment against that. Of course I would, if he asked me – as long as he didn’t hurt me and if
it’s the only way to be with him.
That’s the bottom line. I want to be with him. My inner goddess sighs with relief. I
reach the conclusion that she rarely uses her brain to think but another vital part of her
anatomy, and at the moment, it’s a rather exposed part.
“Don’t,” he murmurs.
I frown and turn to look at him.
“Don’t what?” I haven’t touched him.
“Over-think things, Anastasia.” Reaching out, he grasps my hand, draws it up to his
lips, and kisses my knuckles gently. “I had a wonderful afternoon. Thank you.”
And he’s back with me again. I blink up at him and smile shyly. He’s so confusing. I
ask a question that’s been bugging me.
“Why did you use a cable tie?”
He grins at me.
“It’s quick, it’s easy, and it’s something different for you to feel and experience. I know
they’re quite brutal, and I do like that in a restraining device.” He smiles at me mildly.
“Very effective at keeping you in your place.”
I flush and glance nervously at Taylor, who remains impassive, eyes on road. What am
I supposed to say to that? Christian shrugs innocently.
“All part of my world, Anastasia.” He squeezes my hand and lets go, staring out of the
window again.
His world indeed, and I want to belong in it, but on his terms? I just don’t know. He
hasn’t mentioned that damned contract. My inner musings do nothing to cheer me. I stare
out of the window and the landscape has changed. We’re crossing one of the bridges, sur-
rounded by inky darkness. The somber night reflects my introspective mood, closing in,
suffocating.
I glance briefly at Christian, and he’s staring at me.
“Penny for your thoughts?” he asks.
I sigh and frown.
“That bad, huh?”
“I wish I knew what you were thinking.”He smirks at me.
“Ditto, baby,” he says softly as Taylor speeds into the night toward Bellevue.
It is just before eight when the Audi draws into the driveway of a colonial-style mansion.
It’s breathtaking, even down to the roses around the door. Picture-book perfect.
“Are you ready for this?” Christian asks as Taylor pulls up outside the impressive front
door.
I nod, and he gives my hand another reassuring squeeze.
“First for me too,” he whispers, then smiles wickedly. “Bet you wish you were wear-
ing your underwear right now,” he teases.
I flush. I’d forgotten my missing panties. Fortunately, Taylor has climbed out of the
car and is opening my door so he can’t hear our exchange. I scowl at Christian who grins
broadly as I turn and climb out of the car.
Dr. Grace Trevelyan-Grey is on the doorstep waiting for us. She looks elegantly so-
phisticated in a pale blue silk dress; behind her stands Mr. Grey, I presume, tall, blond, and
as handsome in his own way as Christian.
“Anastasia, you’ve met my mother, Grace. This is my dad, Carrick.”
“Mr. Grey, what a pleasure to meet you.” I smile and shake his outstretched hand.
“The pleasure is all mine, Anastasia.”
“Please call me, Ana.”
His blue eyes are soft and gentle.
“Ana, how lovely to see you again.” Grace wraps me in a warm hug. “Come in, my
dear.”
“Is she here?” I hear a screech from within the house. I glance nervously at Christian.
“That would be Mia, my little sister,” he says almost irritably, but not quite.
There’s an undercurrent of affection in his words, the way his voice grows softer and
his eyes crinkle as he mentions her name. Christian obviously adores her. It’s a revelation.
And she comes barreling down the hall, raven haired, tall, and curvaceous. She’s about
my age.
“Anastasia! I’ve heard so much about you.” She hugs me hard.
Holy Cow. I can’t help but smile at her boundless enthusiasm.
“Ana, please,” I murmur as she drags me into the large vestibule. It’s all dark wood
floors and antique rugs with a sweeping staircase to the second floor.
“He’s never brought a girl home before,” says Mia, dark eyes bright with excitement.
I glimpse Christian rolling his eyes, and I raise an eyebrow at him. He narrows his
eyes at me.
“Mia, calm down,” Grace admonishes softly. “Hello, darling,” she says as she kisses
Christian on both cheeks. He smiles down at her warmly, and then shakes hands with his
father.
We all turn and head into the living room. Mia has not let go of my hand. The room is
spacious, tastefully furnished in creams, browns, and pale blue, comfortable, understated,
and very stylish. Kate and Elliot are cuddled together on a couch, clutching champagne
flutes. Kate bounces up to embrace me, and Mia finally releases my hand.“Hi, Ana!” She beams. “Christian.” She nods curtly to him.
“Kate.” He is equally formal with her.
I frown at their exchange. Elliot grasps me in an all-embracing hug. What is this, hug
Ana week? This dazzling display of affection – I’m just not used to it. Christian stands
at my side, wrapping his arm around me. Placing his hand on my hip, he spreads out his
fingers and pulls me close. Everyone is staring at us. It’s unnerving.
“Drinks?” Mr. Grey seems to recover himself. “Prosecco?”
“Please,” Christian and I speak in unison.
Oh... this is beyond weird. Mia claps her hands.
“You’re even saying the same things. I’ll get them.” She scoots out of the room.
I flush scarlet, and seeing Kate sitting with Elliot, it occurs to me suddenly that the only
reason Christian invited me is because Kate is here. Elliot probably freely and happily
asked Kate to meet his parents. Christian was trapped – knowing that I would have found
out via Kate. I frown at the thought. He’s been forced into the invitation. The realization
is bleak and depressing. My subconscious nods sagely, a you’ve-finally-worked-it-out-
stupid look on her face.
“Dinner’s almost ready,” Grace says as she follows Mia out of the room.
Christian frowns as he gazes at me.
“Sit,” he commands, pointing to the plush couch, and I do as I’m told, carefully cross-
ing my legs. He sits down beside me but doesn’t touch me.
“We were just talking about vacations, Ana,” Mr. Grey says kindly. “Elliot has decided
to follow Kate and her family to Barbados for a week.”
I glance at Kate, and she grins, her eyes bright and wide. She’s delighted. Katherine
Kavanagh, show some dignity!
“Are you taking a break now you’ve finished your degree?” Mr. Grey asks.
“I’m thinking about going to Georgia for a few days,” I reply.
Christian gapes at me, blinking a couple of times, his expression unreadable. Oh shit.
I haven’t mentioned this to him.
“Georgia?” he murmurs.
“My mother lives there, and I haven’t seen her for a while.”
“When were you thinking of going?” His voice is low.
“Tomorrow, late evening.”
Mia saunters back into the living room and hands us champagne flutes filled with pale
pink Prosecco.
“Your good health!” Mr. Grey raises his glass. An appropriate toast from a doctor’s
husband, it makes me smile.
“For how long?” Christian asks, his voice deceptively soft.
Holy crap... he’s angry.
“I don’t know yet. It will depend how my interviews go tomorrow.”
His jaw clenches, and Kate gets that interfering look on her face. She smiles over-
sweetly.
“Ana deserves a break,” she says pointedly at Christian. Why is she so antagonistic
towards him? What is her problem?
“You have interviews?” Mr. Grey asks.“Yes, for internships at two publishers, tomorrow.”
“I wish you the best of luck.”
“Dinner is on the table,” Grace announces.
We all stand. Kate and Elliot follow Mr. Grey and Mia out of the room. I go to follow,
but Christian clutches my elbow, bringing me to an abrupt halt.
“When were you going to tell me you were leaving?” he asks urgently. His tone is soft,
but he’s masking his anger.
“I’m not leaving, I’m going to see my mother, and I was only thinking about it.”
“What about our arrangement?”
“We don’t have an arrangement yet.”
He narrows his eyes, and then seems to remember himself. Releasing my hand, he
takes my elbow and leads me out of the room.
“This conversation is not over,” he whispers threateningly as we enter the dining room.
Oh, crapola. Don’t get your panties in such a twist... and give me back mine. I glare
at him.
The dining room reminds me of our private dinner at the Heathman. A crystal chan-
delier hangs over the dark wood table and there’s a massive, ornately carved mirror on the
wall. The table is laid and covered with a crisp white linen tablecloth, a bowl of pale pink
peonies as the center piece. It’s stunning.
We take our places. Mr. Grey is at the head of the table, while I sit at his right hand,
and Christian is seated beside me. Mr. Grey reaches for the opened bottle of red wine and
offers some to Kate. Mia takes her seat beside Christian, and grabbing his hand, squeezes
it tightly. Christian smiles warmly at her.
“Where did you meet, Ana?” Mia asks him.
“She interviewed me for the WSU student magazine.”
“Which Kate edits,” I add, hoping to steer the conversation away from me.
Mia beams at Kate, seated opposite next to Elliot, and they start talking about the stu-
dent magazine.
“Wine, Ana?” Mr. Grey asks.
“Please.” I smile at him. Mr. Grey rises to fill the rest of the glasses.
I peek up at Christian, and he turns to look at me, his head cocked to one side.
“What?” he asks.
“Please don’t be mad at me,” I whisper.
“I’m not mad at you.”
I stare at him. He sighs.
“Yes, I am mad at you.” He closes his eyes briefly.
“Palm-twitchingly mad?” I ask nervously.
“What are you two whispering about?” Kate interjects.
I flush, and Christian glares at her in a butt-out-of-this-Kavanagh kind of way – even
Kate wilts under his stare.
“Just about my trip to Georgia,” I say sweetly, hoping to diffuse their mutual hostility.
Kate smiles, a wicked gleam in her eye.
“How was José when you went to the bar with him on Friday?”Holy fuck, Kate. I widen my eyes at her. What is she doing? She widens her eyes back
at me, and I realize she’s trying to make Christian jealous. How little she knows. I thought
I’d got away with this.
“He was fine,” I murmur.
Christian leans over.
“Palm-twitchingly mad,” he whispers. “Especially now.” His tone is quiet and deadly.
Oh no. I squirm.
Grace reappears carrying two plates, followed by a pretty young woman with blonde
pigtails, dressed smartly in pale blue, carrying a tray of plates. Her eyes immediately find
Christian in the room. She blushes and gazes at him from under her long mascara’d lashes.
What!
Somewhere in the house the phone starts ringing.
“Excuse me,” Mr. Grey rises again and exits.
“Thank you, Gretchen,” Grace says gently, frowning as Mr. Grey exits. “Just leave
the tray on the console.” Gretchen nods, and with another furtive glance at Christian, she
leaves.
So the Greys have staff, and the staff are eyeing up my would-be Dominant. Can this
evening get any worse? I scowl at my hands in my lap.
Mr. Grey returns.
“Call for you, darling. It’s the hospital,” he says to Grace.
“Please start, everyone.” Grace smiles as she hands me a plate and leaves.
It smells delicious – chorizo and scallops with roasted red peppers and shallots, sprin-
kled with flat leafed parsley. And in spite of the fact that my stomach is churning from
Christian’s veiled threats, the surreptitious glances from pretty little Miss Pigtails, and the
debacle of my missing underwear, I am starving. I flush as I realize it’s the physical effort
of this afternoon that’s given me such an appetite.
Moments later Grace returns, her brow furrowed. Mr. Grey cocks his head to one
side... like Christian.
“Everything okay?”
“Another measles case,” Grace sighs.
“Oh no.”
“Yes, a child. The fourth case this month. If only people would get their kids vacci-
nated.” She shakes her head sadly, and then smiles. “I’m so glad our children never went
through that. They never caught anything worse than chicken pox, thank goodness. Poor
Elliot,” she says as she sits down, smiling indulgently at her son. Elliot frowns mid chew
and squirms uncomfortably. “Christian and Mia were lucky. They got it so mildly, only a
spot to share between them.”
Mia giggles, and Christian rolls his eyes.
“So, did you catch the Mariners game, Dad?” Elliot’s clearly keen to move the con-
versation on.
The hors d’oeuvres are delicious, and I concentrate on eating while Elliot, Mr. Grey,
and Christian talk baseball. Christian seems relaxed and calm talking to his family. My
mind is working furiously. Damn Kate, what game is she playing? Will he punish me? Iquail at the thought. I haven’t signed that contract yet. Perhaps I won’t. Perhaps I’ll stay
in Georgia where he can’t reach me.
“How are you settling into your new apartment dear?” Grace asks politely.
I’m grateful for her question, distracting me from my discordant thoughts, and I tell
her about our move.
As we finish our starters, Gretchen appears, and not for the first time, I wish I felt able
to put my hands freely on Christian just to let her know – he may be fifty shades of fucked-
up, but he’s mine. She proceeds to clear the table, brushing rather too closely to Christian
for my liking. Fortunately, he seems oblivious to her, but my inner goddess is smoldering
and not in a good way.
Kate and Mia are waxing lyrical about Paris.
“Have you been to Paris, Ana?” Mia asks innocently, distracting me from my jealous
reverie.
“No, but I’d love to go.” I know I’m the only one at the table who has never left main-
land USA.
“We honeymooned in Paris.” Grace smiles at Mr. Grey who grins back at her.
It’s almost embarrassing to witness. They obviously love each other deeply, and I
wonder for a brief moment what it must be like to grow up with both one’s parents in situ.
“It’s a beautiful city,” Mia agrees. “In spite of the Parisians. Christian, you should take
Ana to Paris,” Mia states firmly.
“I think Anastasia would prefer London,” Christian says softly.
Oh... he remembered. He places his hand on my knee – his fingers traveling up my
thigh. My whole body tightens in response. No... not here, not now. I flush and shift, try-
ing to pull away from him. His hand clamps down on my thigh, stilling me. I reach for
my wine, in desperation.
Little Miss European Pigtails returns, all coy glances and swaying hips, with our en-
trée, a Beef Wellington, I think. Fortunately, she gives us our plates and then leaves, al-
though she lingers handing Christian his. He looks quizzically at me as I watch her close
the dining room door.
“So what was wrong with the Parisians?” Elliot asks his sister. “Didn’t they take to
your winsome ways?”
“Ugh, no they didn’t. And Monsieur Floubert, the ogre I was working for, he was such
a domineering tyrant.”
I splutter into my wine.
“Anastasia, are you okay?” Christian asks solicitously, taking his hand off my thigh.
Humor has returned to his voice. Oh thank heavens. When I nod, he pats my back
gently, and only removes his hand when he knows I’ve recovered.
The beef is delicious and served with roasted sweet potatoes, carrots, parsnips, and
green beans. It is even more palatable since Christian manages to retain his good-humor
for the rest of the meal. I suspect that it’s because I’m eating so heartily. The conversation
flows freely among the Greys, warm and caring, gently teasing each other. Over our des-
sert of lemon syllabub, Mia regales us with her exploits in Paris, lapsing at one point into
fluent French. We all stare at her, and she stares back puzzled, until Christian tells her inequally fluent French what she’s done, whereupon she bursts into a fit of giggles. She has
a very infectious laugh and soon we’re all in stitches.
Elliot holds forth about his latest building project, a new eco-friendly community to the
north of Seattle. I glance up at Kate, and she’s hanging on every word Elliot says, her eyes
glowing with lust or love. I haven’t quite worked out which yet. He grins down at her, and
it’s as if an unspoken promise passes between them. Laters, baby, he’s saying, and it’s hot,
freaking hot. I flush just watching them.
I sigh and peek up at Fifty Shades. He’s so beautiful, I could stare at him forever. He
has light stubble over his chin, and my fingers itch to scratch it and feel it against my face,
against my breasts... between my thighs. I blush at the direction of my thoughts. He peers
down at me and raises his hand to pull at my chin.
“Don’t bite your lip,” he murmurs huskily. “I want to do that.”
Grace and Mia clear our dessert glasses and head to the kitchen, while Mr. Grey, Kate,
and Elliot discuss the merits of solar panels in Washington State. Christian, feigning inter-
est in their conversation, puts his hand once more on my knee, and his fingers travel up my
thigh. My breathing hitches, and I press my thighs together in a bid to halt his progress. I
can see him smirk.
“Shall I give you a tour of the grounds?” he asks me quite openly.
I know I’m meant to say yes, but I don’t trust him. Before I can answer however, he’s
on his feet and holding his hand out to me. I place my hand in his, and I feel all the muscles
clench deep in my belly, responding to his dark, hungry gray gaze.
“Excuse me,” I say to Mr. Grey and follow Christian out of the dining room.
He leads me through the hallway and into the kitchen where Mia and Grace are stack-
ing the dishwasher. European Pigtails is nowhere to be seen.
“I’m going to show Anastasia the backyard,” Christian says innocently to his mother.
She waves us out with a smile as Mia heads back to the dining room.
We step out onto a grey flagstone patio area lit by recessed lights in the flagstones.
There are shrubs in grey stone tubs and a chic metal table and chairs set up in one corner.
Christian walks past those, up some steps, and onto a vast lawn that leads down to the
bay... oh my – it’s beautiful. Seattle twinkles on the horizon, and the cool, bright, May
moon etches a sparkling silver path across the water toward a jetty where two boats are
moored. Beside the jetty stands a boathouse. It is so picturesque, so peaceful. I stand and
gape for a moment.
Christian pulls me behind him, and my heels sink into the soft grass.
“Stop, please.” I am stumbling in his wake.
He stops and gazes at me, his expression unfathomable.
“My heels. I need to take my shoes off.”
“Don’t bother,” he says, and he bends down and scoops me over his shoulder. I squeal
loudly with shocked surprise, and he gives me a ringing slap on my behind.
“Keep your voice down,” he growls.
Oh no... this is not good, my subconscious is quaking at the knees. He’s mad about
something – could be José, Georgia, no panties, biting my lip. Jeez, he’s easy to rile.
“Where are we going?” I breathe.
“Boathouse,” he snaps.I hang on to his hips as I’m tipped upside-down, and he strides purposefully in the
moonlight across the lawn.
“Why?” I sound breathless, bouncing on this shoulder.
“I need to be alone with you.”
“What for?”
“Because I’m going to spank and then fuck you.”
“Why?” I whimper softly.
“You know why,” he hisses.
“I thought you were an in-the-moment guy?” I plead breathlessly.
“Anastasia, I’m in the moment, trust me.”
Holy fuck.Christian bursts through the wooden door of the boathouse and pauses to flick on some
lights. Fluorescents ping and buzz in sequence as harsh white light floods the large wooden
building. From my upside-down view, I can see an impressive motor launch in the dock
floating gently on the dark water, but I only get a brief look before he’s carrying me up
some wooden stairs to the room above.
He pauses at the doorway and touches another switch – halogens this time, they are
softer, on a dimmer – and we’re in an attic room with sloping ceilings. It’s decorated with
a nautical New England theme: navy blues and creams with a dash of red. The furnishings
are sparse, just a couple of couches are all I can see.
Christian sets me on my feet on the wooden floor. I don’t have time to examine my
surroundings – my eyes can’t leave him. I am mesmerized... watching him like one would
watch a rare and dangerous predator, waiting for him to strike. His breathing is harsh but
then he’s just carried me across the lawn and up a flight of stairs. Gray eyes blaze with
anger, need, and pure unadulterated lust.
Holy shit. I could spontaneously combust from his look alone.
“Please don’t hit me,” I whisper, pleading.
His brow furrows, his eyes widening. He blinks twice.
“I don’t want you to spank me, not here, not now. Please don’t.”His mouth drops open slightly in surprise, and beyond brave, I tentatively reach up and
run my fingers down his cheek, along the edge of his sideburn, to the stubble on his chin.
It’s a curious mixture of soft and prickly. Slowly closing his eyes, he leans his face into
my touch, and his breath hitches in his throat. Reaching up with my other hand, I run my
fingers into his hair. I love his hair. His soft moan is barely audible, and when he opens his
eyes, his look is – wary, like he doesn’t understand what I’m doing.
Stepping forward so I am flush against him, I pull gently on his hair, bringing his
mouth down to mine, and I kiss him, forcing my tongue between his lips and into his
mouth. He groans, and his arms embrace me, pulling me to him. His hands find their way
into my hair, and he kisses me back, hard and possessive. His tongue and my tongue twist
and turn together, consuming each other. He tastes divine.
He pulls back suddenly, our collective breathing ragged and mingling. My hands drop
to his arms and he glares down at me.
“What are you doing to me?” he whispers confused.
“Kissing you.”
“You said no.”
“What?” No to what?
“At the dinner table, with your legs.”
Oh... that’s what this is all about.
“But we were at your parents’ dining table.” I stare up at him, completely bewildered.
“No one’s ever said no to me before. And it’s so – hot.”
His eyes widen slightly, filled with wonder and lust. It’s a heady mix. I swallow in-
stinctively. His hand moves down to my behind. He pulls me sharply against him, and I
can feel his erection.
Oh my...
“You’re mad and turned on because I said no?” I breathe, astonished.
“I’m mad because you never mentioned Georgia to me. I’m mad because you went
drinking with that guy who tried to seduce you when you were drunk and who left you
when you were ill with an almost complete stranger. What kind of friend does that? And
I’m mad and aroused because you closed your legs on me.” His eyes glitter dangerously,
and he’s slowly inching up the hem of my dress.
“I want you, and I want you now. And if you’re not going to let me spank you – which
you deserve – I’m going to fuck you on the couch this minute, quickly, for my pleasure,
not yours.”
My dress is now barely covering my naked behind. He moves suddenly so that his
hand is cupping my sex, and one of his fingers sinks slowly into me. His other arm holds
me firmly in place around my waist. I suppress my moan.
“This is mine,” he whispers aggressively. “All mine. Do you understand?” He eases
his finger in and out as he gazes down at me, gauging my reaction, his eyes burning.
“Yes, yours,” I breathe as my desire, hot and heavy, surges through my bloodstream,
affecting... everything. My nerve endings, my breathing, my heart is pounding, trying to
leave my chest, the blood thrumming in my ears.
Abruptly, he moves, doing several things at once. Withdrawing his fingers, leaving me
wanting, unzipping his fly, and pushing me down onto the couch so he’s lying on top of me.“Hands on your head,” he commands through gritted teeth as he kneels up, forcing my
legs wider, and reaching into the inside pocket of his jacket. He takes out a foil packet,
gazing down at me, his expression dark, before shrugging off his jacket so it falls to the
floor. He rolls the condom down over his impressive length.
I place my hands on my head, and I know it’s so I won’t touch him. I’m so turned on.
I feel my hips moving already up to meet him – wanting him inside me, like this – rough
and hard. Oh... the anticipation.
“We don’t have long. This will be quick, and it’s for me, not you. Do you understand?
Don’t come, or I will spank you,” he says through clenched teeth.
Holy crap... how do I stop?
With one swift thrust, he’s fully inside me. I groan loudly, gutturally, and revel in the
fullness of his possession. He puts his hands on mine on top of my head, his elbows hold
my arms out and down, and his legs pinion me. I am trapped. He’s everywhere, over-
whelming me, almost suffocating. But it’s heavenly too, this is my power, this is what I do
to him, and it’s a hedonistic, triumphant feeling. He moves quickly and furiously inside
me, his breathing harsh at my ear, and my body responds, melting around him. I mustn’t
come. No. But I’m meeting him thrust for thrust, a perfect counterpoint. Abruptly, and
all too soon, he rams into me and stills as he finds his release, air hissing through his teeth.
He relaxes momentarily, so I feel his entire, delicious weight on me. I’m not ready to let
him go, my body craving relief, but he’s so heavy, and in that moment, I can’t push against
him. All of a sudden, he withdraws, leaving me aching and hungry for more. He glares
down at me.
“Don’t touch yourself. I want you frustrated. That’s what you do to me by not talking
to me, by denying me what’s mine.” His eyes blaze anew, angry again.
I nod, panting. He stands and removes the condom, knotting it at the end, and puts it
in his pants pocket. I gaze at him, my breathing still erratic, and involuntarily I squeeze
my thighs together, trying to find some relief. Christian does up his fly and runs his hand
through his hair as he reaches down to collect his jacket. He turns back to gaze down at
me, his expression softer.
“We’d better get back to the house.”
I sit up, a little unsteadily, dazed.
“Here. You may put these on.”
From his inside pocket, he produces my panties. I don’t grin as I take them from him,
but inside I know – I’ve taken a punishment fuck but gained a small victory over the pant-
ies. My inner goddess nods in agreement, a satisfied grin over her face – You didn’t have
to ask for them.
“CHRISTIAN!” Mia shouts from the floor below.
He turns and raises his eyebrows at me.
“Just in time. Christ, she can be really irritating.”
I scowl back at him, hastily restore my panties to their rightful place, and stand with
as much dignity as I can muster in my just-fucked state. Quickly, I attempt to smooth my
just-fucked hair.
“Up here, Mia,” he calls down. “Well, Miss Steele, I feel better for that – but I still
want to spank you,” he says softly.“I don’t believe I deserve it Mr. Grey, especially after tolerating your unprovoked at-
tack.”
“Unprovoked? You kissed me.” He tries his best to look wounded.
I purse my lips.
“It was attack as the best form of defense.”
“Defense against what?”
“You and your twitchy palm.”
He cocks his head to one side and smiles at me as Mia comes clattering up the stairs.
“But it was tolerable?” he asks softly.
I flush.
“Barely,” I whisper, but I can’t help my smirk.
“Oh, there you are.” She beams at us.
“I was showing Anastasia around.” Christian holds his hand out to me, his gray eyes
intense.
I put my hand into his, and he gives it a soft squeeze.
“Kate and Elliot are about to leave. Can you believe those two? They can’t keep their
hands off each other.” Mia feigns disgust and looks from Christian to me. “What have you
been doing in here?”
Jeez, she’s forward. I blush scarlet.
“Showing Anastasia my rowing trophies,” Christian says without missing a beat, com-
pletely poker-faced. “Let’s go say goodbye to Kate and Elliot.”
Rowing trophies? He pulls me gently in front of him, and as Mia turns to go, he swats
my behind. I gasp in surprise.
“I will do it again, Anastasia, and soon,” he threatens quietly close to my ear, then he
pulls me into an embrace, my back to his front, and kisses my hair.
Back in the house, Kate and Elliot are making their farewells to Grace and Mr. Grey. Kate
hugs me hard.
“I need to speak to you about antagonizing Christian,” I hiss quietly in her ear as she
embraces me.
“He needs antagonizing, then you can see what he’s really like. Be careful, Ana – he’s
so controlling,” she whispers. “See you later.”
I KNOW WHAT HE’S REALLY LIKE – YOU DON’T! – I scream at her in my head.
I’m fully aware that her actions come from a good place, but sometimes she just oversteps
the mark, and right now so far that she’s into the neighboring state. I scowl at her, and she
pokes her tongue out at me, making me smile unwillingly. Playful Kate is novel, must be
Elliot’s influence. We wave them off at the doorway, and Christian turns to me.
“We should go too – you have interviews tomorrow.”
Mia embraces me warmly as we say our goodbyes.
“We never thought he’d find anyone!” she gushes.
I flush, and Christian rolls his eyes again. I purse my lips. Why can he do that when
I can’t? I want to roll my eyes back at him, but I do not dare, not after his threat in the
boathouse.“Take care of yourself, Ana, dear,” Grace says kindly.
Christian, embarrassed or frustrated by the lavish attention I’m receiving from the re-
maining Greys, grabs my hand and pulls me to his side.
“Let’s not frighten her away or spoil her with too much affection,” he grumbles.
“Christian, stop teasing.” Grace scolds him indulgently, her eyes glowing with love
and affection for him.
Somehow, I don’t think he’s teasing. I surreptitiously watch their interaction. It’s
obvious Grace adores him with a mother’s unconditional love. He bends and kisses her
stiffly.
“Mom,” he says, and there’s an undercurrent in his voice – reverence maybe?
“Mr. Grey – goodbye and thank you.” I hold out my hand to him, and he hugs me too!
“Please, call me Carrick. I do hope we see you again, very soon, Ana.”
Our farewells said, Christian leads me to the car where Taylor is waiting. Has he been
waiting here the whole time? Taylor opens my door, and I slide into the back of the Audi.
I feel some of the tension leaving my shoulders. Jeez, what a day. I am exhausted,
physically and emotionally. After a brief conversation with Taylor, Christian clambers into
the car beside me. He turns to face me.
“Well, it seems my family likes you, too,” he murmurs.
Too? The depressing thought about how I came to be invited pops unbidden and very
unwelcome into my head. Taylor starts the car and heads away from the circle of light in
the driveway to the darkness of the road. I gaze at Christian, and he’s staring at me.
“What?” he asks, his voice quiet.
I flounder momentarily. No – I’ll tell him. He’s always complaining that I don’t talk
to him.
“I think that you felt trapped into bringing me to meet your parents.” My voice is soft
and hesitant. “If Elliot hadn’t asked Kate, you’d never have asked me.” I can’t see his face
in the dark, but he tilts his head, gaping at me.
“Anastasia, I’m delighted that you’ve met my parents. Why are you so filled with self-
doubt? It never ceases to amaze me. You’re such a strong, self-contained young woman,
but you have such negative thoughts about yourself. If I hadn’t wanted you to meet them,
you wouldn’t be here. Is that how you were feeling the whole time you were there?”
Oh! He wanted me there – and it’s a revelation. He doesn’t seem uncomfortable an-
swering me as he would if he were hiding the truth. He seems genuinely pleased that I’m
here... a warm glow spreads slowly through my veins. He shakes his head and reaches for
my hand. I glance nervously at Taylor.
“Don’t worry about Taylor. Talk to me.”
I shrug.
“Yes. I thought that. And another thing, I only mentioned Georgia because Kate was
talking about Barbados – I haven’t made up my mind.”
“Do you want to go and see your mother?”
“Yes.”
He looks oddly at me, like he’s having some internal struggle.
“Can I come with you?” he asks eventually.
What!?“Erm... I don’t think that’s a good idea.”
“Why not?”
“I was hoping for a break from all this... intensity to try and think things through.”
He stares at me.
“I’m too intense?”
I burst out laughing.
“That’s putting it mildly!”
In the light of the passing street lamps, I see his lips quirk up.
“Are you laughing at me, Miss Steele?”
“I wouldn’t dare, Mr. Grey,” I reply with mock seriousness.
“I think you dare, and I think you do laugh at me, frequently.”
“You are quite funny.”
“Funny?”
“Oh yes.”
“Funny peculiar or funny ha ha?”
“Oh... a lot of one and some of the other.”
“Which way round?”
“I’ll leave you to figure that out.”
“I’m not sure if I can figure anything out around you, Anastasia,” he says sardonically,
and then continues quietly, “What do you need to think about in Georgia?”
“Us,” I whisper.
He stares at me, impassive.
“You said you’d try,” he murmurs.
“I know.”
“Are you having second thoughts?”
“Possibly.”
He shifts as if uncomfortable.
“Why?”
Holy crap. How did this suddenly become such an intense and meaningful conversa-
tion? It’s been sprung on me, like an exam that I’m not prepared for. What do I say? Be-
cause I think I love you, and you just see me as a toy. Because I can’t touch you, because
I’m too frightened to show you any affection in case you flinch or tell me off or worse –
beat me? What can I say?
I stare momentarily out of the window. The car is heading back across the bridge. We
are both shrouded in darkness, masking our thoughts and feelings, but we don’t need the
night for that.
“Why, Anastasia?” Christian presses me for an answer.
I shrug, trapped. I don’t want to lose him. In spite of all his demands, his need to
control, his scary vices. I have never felt as alive as I do now. It’s a thrill to be sitting here
beside him. He’s so unpredictable, sexy, smart, and funny. But his moods... oh – and he
wants to hurt me. He says he’ll think about my reservations, but it still scares me. I close
my eyes. What can I say? Deep down I would just like more, more affection, more playful
Christian, more... love.
He squeezes my hand.“Talk to me, Anastasia. I don’t want to lose you. This last week... ” He trails off.
We’re coming near to the end of the bridge, and the road is once more bathed in the
neon light of the street lamps so his face is intermittently in the light and the dark. And it’s
such a fitting metaphor. This man, whom I once thought of as a romantic hero – a brave
shining white knight, or the dark knight as he said. He’s not a hero, he’s a man with seri-
ous, deep emotional flaws, and he’s dragging me into the dark. Can I not guide him into
the light?
“I still want more,” I whisper.
“I know,” he says. “I’ll try.”
I blink up at him, and he relinquishes my hand and pulls at my chin, releasing my
trapped lip.
“For you, Anastasia, I will try.” He’s radiating sincerity.
And that’s my cue. I unbuckle my seatbelt, reach across, and clamber into his lap, tak-
ing him completely by surprise. Wrapping my arms around his head, I kiss him, long and
hard, and in a nanosecond, he’s responding.
“Stay with me, tonight,” he breathes. “If you go away, I won’t see you all week.
Please.”
“Yes,” I acquiesce. “And I’ll try too. I’ll sign your contract.” And it’s a spur of the
moment decision.
He gazes down at me.
“Sign after Georgia. Think about it. Think about it hard, baby.”
“I will.” And we sit in silence for a mile or two.
“You really should wear your seatbelt,” Christian whispers disapprovingly into my
hair, but he makes no move to shift me from his lap.
I nuzzle up against him, eyes closed, my nose at his throat, drinking in his sexy Chris-
tian-and-spiced-musky-body-wash fragrance, my head on his shoulder. I let my mind drift,
and I allow myself to fantasize that he loves me. Oh, and it’s so real, tangible almost, and
a small part of my nasty harpy self-conscious acts completely out of character and dares to
hope. I’m careful not to touch his chest but just snuggle in his arms as he holds me tightly.
All too soon, I’m torn from my impossible daydream.
“We’re home,” Christian murmurs, and it’s such a tantalizing sentence, full of so much
potential.
Home, with Christian. Except his apartment is an art gallery, not a home.
Taylor opens the door for us, and I thank him shyly, aware that he’s been within earshot
of our conversation, but his kind smile is reassuring and gives nothing away. Once out of
the car, Christian assesses me critically. Oh no... what have I done now?
“Why don’t you have a jacket?” he frowns as he shrugs out of his and drapes it over
my shoulders.
Relief washes through me.
“It’s in my new car,” I reply sleepily, yawning.
He smirks at me.
“Tired, Miss Steele?”
“Yes, Mr. Grey.” I feel bashful under his teasing scrutiny. Nevertheless I feel an ex-
planation is in order, “I’ve been prevailed upon in ways I never thought possible today.”“Well, if you’re really unlucky, I may prevail upon you some more,” he promises as he
takes my hand and leads me into the building. Holy Shit... Again?!
I gaze up at him in the elevator. I have assumed he’d like me to sleep with him, and
then I remember that he doesn’t sleep with anyone, although he has with me a few times.
I frown, and abruptly his gaze darkens. He reaches up and grasps my chin, freeing my lip
from teeth.
“One day I will fuck you in this elevator, Anastasia, but right now you’re tired – so I
think we should stick to a bed.”
Bending down, he clamps his teeth around my lower lip and pulls gently. I melt against
him, and my breathing stops as my insides unfurl with longing. I reciprocate, fastening my
teeth over his top lip, teasing him, and he groans. When the elevator doors open, he grabs
my hand and tugs me into the foyer, through the double doors, and into the hallway.
“Do you need a drink or anything?”
“No.”
“Good. Let’s go to bed.”
I raise my eyebrows at him.
“You’re going to settle for plain old vanilla?”
He cocks his head to one side.
“Nothing plain or old about vanilla – it’s a very intriguing flavor,” he breathes.
“Since when?”
“Since last Saturday. Why? Were you hoping for something more exotic?”
My inner goddess pops her head above the parapet.
“Oh no. I’ve had enough exotic for one day.” My inner goddess pouts at me, failing
miserably to hide her disappointment.
“Sure? We cater for all tastes here – at least thirty-one flavors.” He grins at me lascivi-
ously.
“I’ve noticed,” I reply dryly.
He shakes his head.
“Come on, Miss Steele, you have a big day tomorrow. Sooner you’re in bed, sooner
you’ll be fucked, and sooner you can sleep.”
“Mr. Grey, you are a born romantic.”
“Miss Steele, you have a smart mouth. I may have to subdue it some way. Come.” He
leads me down the hallway into his bedroom and kicks the door closed.
“Hands in the air,” he commands.
I oblige, and in one breathtakingly swift move, he removes my dress like a magician,
grasping it at the hem and pulling it smoothly and fleetly over my head.
“Ta Da!” he says playfully.
I giggle and applaud politely. He bows gracefully grinning. How can I resist him when
he’s like this? He places my dress on the lone chair beside his chest of drawers.
“And for your next trick?” I prompt, teasing.
“Oh my dear, Miss Steele. Get into my bed,” he growls. “And I’ll show you.”
“Do you think that for once I should play hard to get?” I ask coquettishly.
His eyes widen with surprise, and I see a glimmer of excitement.“Well... the door’s closed. Not sure how you’re going to avoid me,” he says sardoni-
cally. “I think it’s a done deal.”
“But I’m a good negotiator.”
“So am I.” He stares down at me, but as he does, his expression changes, confusion
washes over him, and the atmosphere in the room shifts abruptly, tensing. “Don’t you want
to fuck?” he asks.
“No,” I breathe.
“Oh.” He frowns.
Okay, here goes... deep breath.
“I want you to make love to me.”
He stills and stares at me blankly. His expression darkens. Oh shit, this doesn’t look
good. Give him a minute! My subconscious snaps.
“Ana, I... ” He runs his hands through his hair. Two hands. Jeez, he’s really bewil-
dered.
“I thought we did?” he says eventually.
“I want to touch you.”
He takes an involuntary step back from me, his expression for a moment fearful, and
then he reins it in.
“Please,” I whisper.
He recovers himself.
“Oh, no Miss Steele, you’ve had enough concessions from me this evening. And I’m
saying no.”
“No?”
“No.”
Oh... I can’t argue with that... can I?
“Look, you’re tired, I’m tired. Let’s just go to bed,” he says, watching me carefully.
“So touching is a hard limit for you?”
“Yes. This is old news.”
“Please tell me why.”
“Oh, Anastasia, please. Just drop it for now,” he mutters exasperated.
“It’s important to me.”
Again he runs both hands through his hair, and he utters an oath beneath his breath.
Turning on his heel, he heads for the chest of drawers, pulls out a t-shirt, and throws it at
me. I catch it, bemused.
“Put that on and get into bed,” he snaps, irritated.
I frown but decide to humor him. Turning my back, I quickly remove my bra, pulling
the t-shirt on as hastily as I can to cover my nakedness. I leave my panties on, I haven’t
worn them for most of the evening.
“I need the bathroom.” My voice is a whisper.
He frowns, bemused.
“Now you’re asking permission?”
“Err... no.”“Anastasia, you know where the bathroom is. Today, at this point in our strange ar-
rangement, you don’t need my permission to use it.” He cannot hide his irritation. He
shrugs out of his shirt, and I scoot into the bathroom.
I stare at myself in the over-large mirror, shocked that I still look the same. After all
that I’ve done today, it’s still the same ordinary girl gaping back at me. What did you ex-
pect – that you’d grow horns and a little pointy tail? My subconscious snaps at me. And
what the hell are you doing? Touching is his hard limit. Too soon, you idiot, he needs to
walk before he can run. My subconscious is furious, medusa-like in her anger, hair flying,
her hands clenched around her face like Edvard Munch’s Scream. I ignore her, but she
won’t climb back into her box. You are making him mad – think about all that’s he’s said,
all he’s conceded. I scowl at my reflection. I need to be able to show him affection – then
perhaps he can reciprocate.
I shake my head resigned and grasp Christian’s toothbrush. My subconscious is right
of course. I’m rushing him. He’s not ready and neither am I. We are balanced on the
delicate see-saw, that is our strange arrangement – at different ends, vacillating, and it tips
and sways between us. We both need to edge closer to the middle. I just hope neither of us
falls off in our attempt to do so. This is all so quick. Maybe I need some distance. Georgia
seems more appealing than ever. As I begin brushing my teeth, he knocks.
“Come in,” I splutter through a mouthful of toothpaste.
Christian stands in the doorway, his PJs hanging off his hips – in that way that makes
every little cell in my body stand up and take notice. He’s bare-chested, and I drink him
in like I’m crazed with thirst and he’s clear cool mountain spring water. He gazes at me
impassively, then smirks and comes to stand beside me. Our eyes lock in the mirror, gray
to blue. I finish with his toothbrush, rinse it off, and hand it to him, my look never leaving
his. Wordlessly, he takes the toothbrush from me and puts it in his mouth. I smirk back at
him, and his eyes are suddenly dancing with humor.
“Do feel free to borrow my toothbrush.” His tone is gently mocking.
“Thank you, Sir,” I smile sweetly, and I leave, heading back to bed.
A few minutes later he joins me.
“You know this is not how I saw tonight panning out,” he mutters petulantly.
“Imagine if I said to you that you couldn’t touch me.”
He clambers onto the bed and sits cross-legged.
“Anastasia, I’ve told you. Fifty shades. I had a rough start in life – you don’t want that
shit in your head. Why would you?”
“Because I want to know you better.”
“You know me well enough.”
“How can you say that?” I struggle up onto my knees, facing him.
He rolls his eyes at me, frustrated.
“You’re rolling your eyes. Last time I did that, I ended up over your knee.”
“Oh, I’d like to put you there again.”
Inspiration hits me.
“Tell me and you can.”
“What?”
“You heard me.”“You’re bargaining with me?” His voice resonates with astonished disbelief.
I nod. Yes... this is the way.
“Negotiating.”
“It doesn’t work that way, Anastasia.”
“Okay. Tell me, and I’ll roll my eyes at you.”
He laughs, and I get a rare glimpse of carefree Christian. I’ve not seen him for a while.
He sobers.
“Always so keen and eager for information.” His gray eyes blaze with speculation.
After a moment, he gracefully climbs off the bed. “Don’t go away,” he says and exits the
room.
Trepidation lances through me, and I hug myself. What’s he doing? Does he have
some evil plan? Crap. Suppose he returns with a cane, or some weird kinky implement?
Holy shit, what will I do then? When he does return, he’s holding something small in his
hands. I can’t see what it is, and I’m burning with curiosity.
“When’s your first interview tomorrow?” he asks softly.
“Two.”
A slow wicked grin spreads across his face.
“Good.” And before my eyes, he subtly changes. He’s harder, intractable... hot. This
is Dominant Christian.
“Get off the bed. Stand over here.” He points to beside the bed, and I scramble up and
off in double-quick time. He stares intently down at me, his eyes glittering with promise.
“Trust me?” he asks softly.
I nod. He holds out his hand, and in his palm are two round, shiny, silver balls, linked
with a thick black thread.
“These are new,” he says emphatically.
I look questioningly up at him.
“I am going to put these inside you, and then I’m going to spank you, not for punish-
ment, but for your pleasure and mine.” He pauses, gauging my wide-eyed reaction.
Inside me! I gasp, and all the muscles deep in my belly clench. My inner goddess is
doing the dance of the seven veils.
“Then we’ll fuck, and if you’re still awake, I’ll impart some information about my
formative years. Agreed?”
He’s asking my permission! Breathlessly, I nod. I’m incapable of speech.
“Good girl. Open your mouth.”
Mouth?
“Wider.”
Very gently, he puts the balls in my mouth.
“They need lubrication. Suck,” he orders, his voice soft.
The balls are cold, smooth, surprisingly heavy, and metallic tasting. My dry mouth
pools with saliva as my tongue explores the unfamiliar objects. Christian’s gray gaze does
not leave mine. Holy hell, this is turning me on. I squirm slightly.
“Keep still, Anastasia,” he warns.
“Stop.” He tugs them from my mouth. Moving toward the bed, he throws the duvet
aside and sits down on the edge.“Come here.”
I stand in front of him.
“Now turn round, bend down, and grasp your ankles.”
I blink at him, and his expression darkens.
“Don’t hesitate,” he admonishes me softly, an undercurrent in his voice, and he pops
the balls in his mouth.
Fuck, this is sexier than the toothbrush. I follow his orders immediately. Jeez, can I
touch my ankles? I find I can, with ease. The t-shirt slides up my back, exposing my be-
hind. Thank heavens I have retained my panties, but I suspect I won’t for long.
He places his hand reverently on my backside and very softly caresses it with his whole
hand. With my eyes open, I can see his legs through mine, nothing else. I close my eyes
tightly as he gently moves my panties to the side and slowly runs his finger up and down
my sex. My body braces itself in a heady mix of wild anticipation and arousal. He slides
one finger inside me, and he circles it deliciously slowly. Oh, it feels good. I moan.
His breathing halts, and I hear him gasp as he repeats the motion. He withdraws
his finger and very slowly inserts the objects, one slow, delicious ball at a time. Oh my.
They’re body temperature, warmed by our collective mouths. It’s a curious feeling. Once
they’re inside me, I can’t really feel them – but then again I know they’re there.
He straightens my panties and leans forward, and his lips softly kiss my behind.
“Stand up,” he orders, and shakily I get to my feet.
Oh! Now I can feel them... sort of. He grasps my hips to steady me while I re-estab-
lish my equilibrium.
“You okay?” he asks, his voice stern.
“Yes.” My answer is feather soft.
“Turn round.” I turn and face him.
The balls pull downward and involuntarily I clench around them. The feeling startles
me but not in a bad way.
“How does that feel?” he asks.
“Strange.”
“Strange good or strange bad?”
“Strange good,” I confess, blushing.
“Good.” There’s a trace of humor lurking in his eyes.
“I want a glass of water. Go and fetch one for me please.”
Oh.
“And when you come back, I shall put you across my knee. Think about that, Anas-
tasia.”
Water? He wants water – now – why?
As I leave the bedroom, it becomes abundantly clear why he wants me to walk around
– as I do, the balls weigh down inside me, massaging me internally. It’s such a weird feel-
ing and not entirely unpleasant. In fact, my breathing accelerates as I stretch up for a glass
from the kitchen cabinet, and I gasp. Oh my... I may have to keep these. They make me
needy, needy for sex.
He’s watching me carefully when I return.
“Thank you,” he says as he takes the glass from me.Slowly, he takes a sip then places the glass on his bedside table. There’s a foil packet,
ready and waiting, like me. And I know he’s doing this to build the anticipation. My heart
has picked up a beat. He turns his bright gray gaze to mine.
“Come. Stand beside me. Like last time.”
I sidle up to him, my blood thrumming through my body, and this time... I’m excited.
Aroused.
“Ask me,” he says softly.
I frown. Ask him what?
“Ask me,” his voice is slightly harder.
What? How was your water? What does he want?
“Ask me, Anastasia. I won’t say it again.” And there’s such a threat implicit in his
words, and it dawns on me. He wants me to ask him to spank me.
Holy shit. He’s looking at me expectantly, his eyes growing colder. Shit.
“Spank me, please... Sir,” I whisper.
He closes his eyes momentarily, savoring my words. Reaching up, he grasps my left
hand and he tugs me over his knees. I fall instantly, and he steadies me as I land in his lap.
My heart is in my mouth as his hand gently strokes my behind. I’m angled across his lap
again so that my torso rests on the bed beside him. This time he doesn’t throw his leg over
mine, but smoothes my hair out of my face and tucks it behind my ear. Once he’s done,
he clasps my hair at the nape to hold me in place. He tugs gently and my head shifts back.
“I want to see your face while I spank you, Anastasia,” he murmurs, all the while softly
rubbing my backside.
His hand moves down between the cheeks of my behind, and he pushes against my sex,
and the full feeling is... I moan. Oh, the sensation is exquisite.
“This is for pleasure, Anastasia, mine and yours,” he whispers softly.
He lifts his hand and brings it down in a resounding slap against the junction of my
thighs, my behind, and my sex. The balls are forced forward inside me, and I’m lost in
a quagmire of sensation. The stinging across my behind, the fullness of the balls inside
me, and the fact that he’s holding me down. I screw my face up as my faculties attempt to
absorb all these foreign feelings. I note somewhere in my brain that he’s not smacked me
as hard as last time. He caresses my backside again, trailing his palm across my skin and
over my underwear.
Why’s he not removed my panties? Then his palm disappears, and he brings it down
again. I groan as the sensation spreads. He starts a pattern: left to right and then down.
The down ones are the best. Everything moving forward, inside me... and in between each
smack he caresses me, kneads me – so I am massaged inside and out. It’s such a stimulat-
ing, erotic feeling, and for some reason, because this is on my terms, I don’t mind the pain.
It’s not painful as such – well it is, but not unbearable. It’s somehow manageable, and yes
pleasurable... even. I groan. Yes, I can do this.
He pauses as he slowly peels my panties down my legs. I writhe on his legs, not be-
cause I want to escape the blows, but I want... more, release, something. His touch against
my sensitized skin is all sensuous tingle. It’s overwhelming, and he starts again. A few soft
slaps then building up, left to right and down. Oh, the downs, I groan.
“Good girl, Anastasia,” he groans, and his breathing is ragged.He spanks me twice more, and then he pulls at the small threads attached to the balls
and jerks them out of me suddenly. I almost climax – the feeling is out of this world. Mov-
ing swiftly, he gently turns me over. I hear rather see the rip of the foil packet, and then he’s
lying beside me. He seizes my hands, hoists them over my head, and eases himself onto
me, into me, sliding slowly, filling me where the silver globes have been. I groan loudly.
“Oh, baby,” he whispers as he moves back, forward, a slow sensual tempo, savoring
me, feeling me.
It is the most gentle he has ever been, and it takes no time at all for me to fall over the
edge, spiraling into a delicious, violent, exhausting, orgasm. As I clench around him, it ig-
nites his release, and he slides into me, stilling, gasping out my name in desperate wonder.
“Ana!”
He’s silent and panting on top of me, his hands still entwined in mine above my head.
Finally, he leans back and stares down at me.
“I enjoyed that,” he whispers, and then kisses me sweetly.
He doesn’t linger for more sweet kisses, but rises, covers me with the duvet, and disap-
pears into the bathroom. On his return he’s carrying a bottle of white lotion. He sits beside
me on the bed.
“Roll over,” he orders, and begrudgingly I move on to my front.
Honestly, all this fuss. I feel very sleepy.
“Your ass is a glorious color,” he says approvingly, and he tenderly massages the cool-
ing lotion into my pink behind.
“Spill the beans, Grey,” I yawn.
“Miss Steele, you know how to ruin a moment.”
“We had a deal.”
“How do you feel?”
“Short changed.”
He sighs, slides in beside me, and pulls me into his arms. Careful not to touch my
stinging behind, we are spooning again. He kisses me very softly beside my ear.
“The woman who brought me into this world was a crack-whore, Anastasia. Go to
sleep.”
Holy fuck... what does that mean?
“Was?”
“She’s dead.”
“How long?”
He sighs.
“She died when I was four. I don’t really remember her. Carrick has given me some
details. I only remember certain things. Please go to sleep.”
“Goodnight, Christian.”
“Goodnight, Ana.”
And I slip into a dazed and exhausted sleep, dreaming of a four-year-old, gray-eyed
boy in a dark, scary, miserable place.There is light everywhere. Bright, warm, piercing light, and I endeavor to keep it at bay
for a few more precious minutes. I want to hide, just a few more minutes. But the glare is
too strong, and I finally succumb to wakefulness. A glorious Seattle morning greets me –
sunshine pouring through the full-height windows and flooding the room with too-bright
light. Why didn’t we close the blinds last night? I am in Christian Grey’s vast bed minus
one Christian Grey.
I lie back for a moment staring through the windows at the lofty vista of Seattle’s
skyline. Life in the clouds sure feels unreal. A fantasy – a castle in the air, adrift from the
ground, safe from the realities of life – far away from neglect, hunger, and crack-whore
mothers. I shudder to think what he went through as a small child, and I understand why he
lives here, isolated, surrounded by beautiful, precious works of art – so far removed from
where he started... mission statement indeed. I frown because it still doesn’t explain why
I can’t touch him.
Ironically, I feel the same up here in his lofty tower. I’m adrift from reality. I’m in this
fantasy apartment, having fantasy sex with my fantasy boyfriend. When the grim reality
is he wants a special arrangement, though he’s said he’ll try more. What does that actually
mean? This is what I need to clarify between us to see if we are still at opposite ends on
the see-saw or if we are inching closer together.I clamber out of bed feeling stiff, and for want of a better expression, well-used. Yes,
that would be all the sex then. My subconscious purses her lips in disapproval. I roll my
eyes at her, grateful that a certain twitchy-palmed control freak is not in the room, and
resolve to ask him about the personal trainer. That’s if I sign. My inner goddess glares at
me in desperation. Of course you’ll sign. I ignore them both, and after a quick trip to the
bathroom, I go in search of Christian.
He’s not in the art gallery, but an elegant middle-aged woman is cleaning in the kitchen
area. The sight of her stops me in my tracks. She has short blonde hair and clear blue eyes;
she wears a plain white tailored shirt and a navy blue pencil skirt. She smiles broadly when
she sees me.
“Good morning, Miss Steele. Would you like some breakfast?” Her tone is warm
but business like, and I am stunned. Who is this attractive blonde in Christian’s kitchen?
I’m only wearing Christian’s t-shirt. I feel self-conscious and embarrassed by my lack of
clothing.
“I’m afraid you have me at a disadvantage.” My voice is quiet, unable to hide the
anxiety in my voice.
“Oh, I’m terribly sorry – I’m Mrs. Jones, Mr. Grey’s housekeeper.”
Oh.
“How do you do?” I manage.
“Would you like some breakfast, ma’am?”
Ma’am!
“Just some tea would be lovely, thank you. Do you know where Mr. Grey is?”
“In his study.”
“Thank you.”
I scuttle off toward the study, mortified. Why does Christian only have attractive
blondes working for him? And a nasty thought comes involuntarily into my mind – Are
they all ex-subs? I refuse to entertain that hideous idea. I poke my head shyly round the
door. He’s on the phone, facing the window, in black pants and a white shirt. His hair is
still wet from the shower, and I’m completely distracted from my negative thoughts.
“Unless that company’s P&L improves, I’m not interested, Ros. We’re not carrying
dead weight... I don’t need any more lame excuses... Have Marco call me, it’s shit or bust
time... Yes, tell Barney that the prototype looks good, though I’m not sure about the inter-
face... No, it’s just missing something... I want to meet him this afternoon to discuss...
In fact, him and his team, we can brainstorm.... Okay. Transfer me back to Andrea... ” He
waits, staring out of the window, master of his universe, staring down at the little people
below from this castle in the sky. “Andrea... ”
Glancing up, he notices me at the door. A slow, sexy smile spreads across his beauti-
ful face, and I’m rendered speechless as my insides melt. He is without a doubt the most
beautiful man on the planet, too beautiful for the little people below, too beautiful for me.
No my inner goddess scowls at me, not too beautiful for me. He is sort of mine, for now.
The idea sends a thrill through my blood and dispels my irrational self-doubt.
He continues his conversation, his eyes never leaving mine.
“Clear my schedule this morning, but get Bill to call me. I’ll be in at two. I need to
talk to Marco this afternoon, that will need at least half an hour... Schedule Barney and histeam in after Marco or maybe tomorrow, and find time for me to see Claude everyday this
week... Tell him to wait... Oh... No, I don’t want publicity for Darfur... Tell Sam to deal
with it... No.... Which event?... That’s next Saturday?... Hold on.”
“When will you be back from Georgia?” he asks.
“Friday.”
He resumes his phone conversation.
“I’ll need an extra ticket because I have a date... Yes Andrea, that’s what I said, a date,
Miss Anastasia Steele will accompany me... That’s all.” He hangs up. “Good morning,
Miss Steele.”
“Mr. Grey,” I smile shyly.
He walks around his desk with his usual grace and stands in front of me. He smells so
good; clean and freshly laundered, so Christian. He gently strokes my cheek with the back
of his fingers.
“I didn’t want to wake you, you looked so peaceful. Did you sleep well?”
“I am very well-rested, thank you. I just came to say hi before I had a shower.”
I gaze up at him, drinking him in. He leans down and gently kisses me, and I can’t
help myself. I throw my arms around his neck and my fingers twist in his still damp hair.
Pushing my body flush against his, I kiss him back. I want him. My attack takes him by
surprise, but after a beat, he responds, a low groan in his throat. His hands slip into my
hair and down my back to cup my naked behind, his tongue exploring my mouth. He pulls
back, his eyes hooded.
“Well, sleep seems to agree with you,” he murmurs. “I suggest you go and have your
shower, or I shall lay you across my desk, now.”
“I choose the desk,” I whisper recklessly as desire sweeps like adrenaline through my
system, waking everything in its path.
He stares bewildered down at me for a millisecond.
“You’ve really got a taste for this, haven’t you, Miss Steele. You’re becoming insa-
tiable,” he murmurs.
“I’ve only got a taste for you,” I whisper.
His eyes widen and darken while his hands knead my naked backside.
“Damn right, only me,” he growls, and suddenly with one fluid movement, he clears all
the plans and papers off his desk so that they scatter on the floor, sweeps me up in his arms,
and lays me down across the short end of his desk so that my head is almost off the edge.
“You want it, you got it, baby,” he mutters, producing a foil packet from his pants
pocket while he unzips his pants. Oh Mr. Boy Scout. He rolls the condom over his erection
and gazes down at me. “I sure hope you’re ready,” he breathes, a salacious smile across his
face. And in a moment, he’s filling me, holding my wrists tightly by my side, and thrusting
into me deeply.
I groan... oh yes.
“Christ, Ana. You’re so ready,” he whispers in veneration.
Wrapping my legs around his waist, I hold him the only way I can as he stays standing,
staring down at me, gray eyes glowing, passionate and possessive. He starts to move, re-
ally move. This is not making love, this is fucking – and I love it. I groan. It’s so raw, so
carnal, making me so wanton. I revel in his possession, his lust slaking mine. He moveswith ease, luxuriating in me, enjoying me, his lips slightly parted as his breathing increases.
He twists his hips from side to side, and the feeling is exquisite.
Oh my. I close my eyes, feeling the build up – that delicious, slow, step climbing build.
Pushing me higher, higher to the castle in the air. Oh yes... his stroke increasing fractional-
ly. I moan loudly. I am all sensation... all him, enjoying every thrust, every push that fills
me. And he picks up the pace, thrusting faster... harder... and my whole body is moving
to his rhythm, and I can feel my legs stiffening, and my insides quivering and quickening.
“Come on, baby, give it up for me,” he cajoles through gritted teeth – and the fervent
need in his voice – the strain – sends me over the edge.
I cry out a wordless, passionate plea as I touch the sun and burn, falling around him,
falling down, back to a breathless, bright summit on Earth. He slams into me and stops
abruptly as he reaches his climax, pulling at my wrists, and sinking gracefully and word-
lessly onto me.
Wow... that was unexpected. I slowly materialize back on Earth.
“What the hell are you doing to me?” he breathes as he nuzzles my neck. “You com-
pletely beguile me, Ana. You weave some powerful magic.”
He releases my wrists, and I run my fingers through his hair, coming down from my
high. I tighten my legs around him.
“I’m the one beguiled,” I whisper.
He looks up, gazing at me, his expression is disconcerted, alarmed even. Placing his
hands on either side of my face, he holds my head in place.
“You. Are. Mine,” he says, each word a staccato. “Do you understand?”
He’s so earnest, so impassioned – a zealot. The force of his plea is so unexpected and
disarming. I wonder why he’s feeling like this.
“Yes, yours,” I whisper, derailed by his fervor.
“Are you sure you have to go to Georgia?”
I nod slowly. And in that brief moment, I can see his expression change and the shut-
ters coming down. Abruptly he withdraws, making me wince.
“Are you sore?” he asks, leaning over me.
“A little,” I confess.
“I like you sore.” His eyes smolder. “Reminds you where I’ve been, and only me.”
He grabs my chin and kisses me roughly, then stands and holds his hand out to help me
up. I glance down at the foil packet beside me.
“Always prepared,” I murmur.
He looks at me confused as he redoes his fly. I hold up the empty packet.
“A man can hope, Anastasia, dream even, and sometimes his dreams come true.”
He sounds so odd, his eyes burning. I just don’t understand. My post coital glow is
fading fast. What is his problem?
“So, on your desk, that’s been a dream?” I ask dryly, trying humor to lighten the atmo-
sphere between us.
He smiles an enigmatic smile that doesn’t reach his eyes, and I know immediately this
is not the first time he’s had sex on his desk. The thought is unwelcome. I squirm uncom-
fortably as my post coital glow evaporates.
“I’d better go and have a shower.” I stand and make to move past him.He frowns and runs a hand through his hair.
“I’ve got a couple more calls to make. I’ll join you for breakfast once you’re out of
the shower. I think Mrs. Jones has laundered your clothes from yesterday. They’re in the
closet.”
What? When the hell did she do that? Jeez, could she hear us? I flush.
“Thank you,” I mutter.
“You’re most welcome,” he replies automatically, but there’s an edge to his voice.
I’m not saying thank you for fucking me. Although, it was very...
“What?” he asks, and I realize I’m frowning.
“What’s wrong?” I ask softly.
“What do you mean?”
“Well... you’re being more weird than usual.”
“You find me weird?” He tries to stifle a smile.
I blush.
“Sometimes.”
He regards me for a moment, his eyes speculative.
“As ever, I’m surprised by you, Miss Steele.”
“Surprised how?”
“Let’s just say that was an unexpected treat.”
“We aim to please, Mr. Grey.” I cock my head to one side like he often does to me and
give his words back to him.
“And please me you do,” he says, but he looks uneasy. “I thought you were going to
have a shower.”
Oh, he’s dismissing me.
“Yes... um, I’ll see you in a moment.” I scurry out of his office completely dumb-
founded.
He seemed confused. Why? I have to say as physical experiences go, that was very
satisfying. But emotionally – well, I’m rattled by his reaction, and that was about as emo-
tionally enriching as cotton candy is nutritious.
Mrs. Jones is still in the kitchen.
“Would you like your tea now, Miss Steele?”
“I’ll have a shower first, thank you,” I mutter and take my blazing face quickly out of
the room.
In the shower, I try to figure out what’s up with Christian. He is the most complicated
person I know, and I cannot understand his ever-changing moods. He seemed fine when
I went into his study. We had sex... and then he wasn’t. No, I don’t get it. I look to my
subconscious. She’s whistling with her hands behind her back and looking anywhere but at
me. She hasn’t got a clue, and my inner goddess is still basking in a remnant of post-coital
glow. No – we’re all clueless.
I towel-dry my hair, comb it through with Christian’s one and only hair implement,
and put my hair up in bun. Kate’s plum dress hangs laundered and ironed in the closet
along with my clean bra and panties. Mrs. Jones is a marvel. Slipping on Kate’s shoes, I
straighten my dress, take a deep breath, and head back out to the great room.Christian is still nowhere to be seen, and Mrs. Jones is checking the contents of the
pantry.
“Tea now, Miss Steele?” she asks.
“Please.” I smile at her. I feel slightly more confident now that I’m dressed.
“Would you like something to eat?”
“No, thank you.”
“Of course you’ll have something to eat,” Christian snaps, glowering. “She likes pan-
cakes, bacon, and eggs, Mrs. Jones.”
“Yes, Mr. Grey. What would you like, sir?”
“Omelet, please, and some fruit.” He doesn’t take his eyes off me, his expression un-
fathomable. “Sit,” he orders, pointing to one of the bar stools.
I oblige, and he sits beside me while Mrs. Jones busies herself with breakfast. Gosh,
it’s unnerving having someone else listen to our conversation.
“Have you bought your air ticket?”
“No, I’ll buy it when I get home – over the Internet.”
He leans on his elbow, rubbing his chin.
“Do you have the money?”
Oh no.
“Yes,” I say with mock patience as if I’m talking to a small child.
He raises a censorious eyebrow at me. Crap.
“Yes, I do, thank you,” I amend rapidly.
“I have a jet. It’s not scheduled to be used for three days, it’s at your disposal.”
I gape at him. Of course he has a jet, and I have to resist my body’s natural inclination
to roll my eyes at him. I want to laugh. But I don’t, as I can’t read his mood.
“We’ve already made serious misuse of your company’s aviation fleet. I wouldn’t
want to do it again.”
“It’s my company, it’s my jet.” He sounds almost wounded. Oh, boys and their toys!
“Thank you for the offer. But I’d be happier taking a scheduled flight.”
He looks like he wants to argue further but decides against it.
“As you wish,” he sighs. “Do you have much preparation to do for your interview?”
“No.”
“Good. You’re still not going to tell me which publishing houses?”
“No.”
His lips curl up in a reluctant smile.
“I am a man of means, Miss Steele.”
“I am fully aware of that, Mr. Grey. Are you going to track my phone?” I ask inno-
cently.
“Actually, I’ll be quite busy this afternoon, so I’ll have to get someone else to do it.”
He smirks.
Is he joking?
“If you can spare someone to do that, you’re obviously overstaffed.”
“I’ll send an email to the head of human resources and have her look into our head
count.” His lips twitch to hide his smile.
Oh thank the Lord, he’s recovered his sense of humor.Mrs. Jones serves us breakfast and we eat quietly for a few moments. After clearing
the pans, tactfully, she heads out of the living area. I peek up at him.
“What it is, Anastasia?”
“You know, you never did tell me why you don’t like to be touched.”
He blanches, and his reaction makes me feel guilty for asking.
“I’ve told you more than I’ve ever told anybody.” His voice is quiet as he gazes at me
impassively.
And it’s clear to me that he’s never confided in anyone. Doesn’t he have any close
friends? Perhaps he told Mrs. Robinson? I want to ask him, but I can’t – I can’t pry that
invasively. I shake my head at the realization. He really is an island.
“Will you think about our arrangement while you’re away?” he asks.
“Yes.”
“Will you miss me?”
I gaze at him, surprised by his question.
“Yes,” I answer honestly.
How could he mean so much to me in such a short time? He’s got right under my
skin... literally. He smiles and his eyes light up.
“I’ll miss you too. More than you know,” he breathes.
My heart warms at his words. He really is trying, hard. He gently strokes my cheek,
bends down, and kisses me softly.
It is late afternoon, and I sit nervous and fidgeting in the lobby waiting for Mr. J. Hyde
of Seattle Independent Publishing. This is my second interview today, and the one I’m
most anxious about. My first interview went well, but it was for a larger conglomerate with
offices based throughout the US, and I would be one of many editorial assistants there. I
can imagine being swallowed up and spat out pretty quickly in such a corporate machine.
SIP is where I want to be. It’s small and unconventional, championing local authors, and
has an interesting and quirky roster of clients.
My surroundings are sparse, but I think it’s a design statement rather than frugality. I
am seated on one of two dark green chesterfield couches made of leather – not unlike the
couch that Christian has in his playroom. I stroke the leather appreciatively and wonder
idly what Christian does on that couch. My mind wanders as I think of the possibili-
ties... no – I must not go there now. I flush at my wayward and inappropriate thoughts.
The receptionist is a young African-American woman with large silver earrings and long
straightened hair. She has a bohemian look about her, the sort of woman I could be friendly
with. The thought is comforting. Every few moments, she glances at up me, away from
her computer and smiles reassuringly. I tentatively return her smile.My flight is booked; my mother is in seventh heaven that I am visiting; I am packed,
and Kate has agreed to drive me to the airport. Christian has ordered me to take my Black-
Berry and the Mac. I roll my eyes at the memory of his overbearing bossiness, but I realize
now that’s just the way he is. He likes control over everything, including me. Yet he’s
so unpredictably and disarmingly agreeable too. He can be tender, good-humored, even
sweet. And when he is, it’s so left field and unexpected. He insisted on accompanying me
all the way down to my car in the garage. Jeez, I’m only going for a few days, he’s acting
like I’m going for weeks. He keeps me on the back foot permanently.
“Ana Steele?” A woman with long, black, pre-Raphaelite hair standing by the recep-
tion desk distracts me from my introspection. She has the same bohemian, floaty look as
the receptionist. She could be in her late thirties, maybe in her forties. It’s so difficult to
tell with older women.
“Yes,” I reply, standing awkwardly.
She gives me a polite smile, her cool hazel eyes assessing me. I am wearing one of
Kate’s dresses, a black pinafore over a white blouse, and my black pumps. Very interview,
I think. My hair is restrained in a ponytail, and for once the tendrils are behaving them-
selves... she holds her hand out to me.
“Hello, Ana, my name’s Elizabeth Morgan. I’m head of Human Resources here at
SIP.”
“How do you do?” I shake her hand. She looks very casual to be the head of HR.
“Please follow me.”
We go through the double doors behind the reception area, into a large brightly deco-
rated open plan office, and from there, head into a small meeting room. The walls are pale
green, lined with pictures of book covers. At the head of the Maplewood conference table
sits a young man with red hair tied in a ponytail. Small, silver, hooped earrings glint in
both his ears. He wears a pale blue shirt, no tie, and grey flannel trousers. As I approach
him, he stands and gazes at me with fathomless dark blue eyes.
“Ana Steele, I’m Jack Hyde, the commissioning editor here at SIP, and I’m very
pleased to meet you.”
We shake hands, and his dark expression is unreadable, though friendly enough, I
think.
“Have you traveled far?” he asks pleasantly.
“No, I’ve recently moved to the Pike Street Market area.”
“Oh, not far at all then. Please, take a seat.”
I sit, and Elizabeth takes a seat beside him.
“So why would you like to intern for us at SIP, Ana?” he asks.
He says my name softly and cocks his head to one side, like someone I know – it’s
unnerving. Doing my best to ignore the irrational wariness he inspires, I launch into my
carefully prepared speech, conscious that a rosy flush is spreading across my cheeks. I look
at both of them, remembering The Katherine Kavanagh Successful Interviewing Technique
lecture – maintain eye contact, Ana! Boy, that woman can be bossy too, sometimes. Jack
and Elizabeth both listen attentively.
“You have a very impressive GPA. What extra-curricular activities did you indulge in
at WSU?”Indulge? I blink at him. What an odd choice of word. I launch into details of my
librarianship at the campus central library, and my one experience of interviewing an ob-
scenely rich despot for the student magazine. I gloss over the part that I didn’t actually
write the article. I mention the two literary societies that I belonged to and conclude with
working at Clayton’s and all the useless knowledge I now possess about hardware and DIY.
They both laugh, which is the response I’d hoped for. Slowly, I relax and begin to enjoy
myself.
Jack Hyde asks sharp, intelligent questions, but I’m not thrown – I keep up, and when
we discuss my reading preferences and my favorite books, I think I hold my own. Jack, on
the other hand, appears to only favor American literature written after 1950. Nothing else.
No classics - not even Henry James or Upton Sinclair or F Scott Fitzgerald. Elizabeth says
nothing, just nods occasionally and takes notes. Jack, though argumentative, is charming
in his way, and my initial wariness dissipates the longer we talk.
“And where do you see yourself in five years’ time?” he asks.
With Christian Grey, the thought comes involuntarily into my head. My errant mind
makes me frown.
“Copy editing perhaps? Maybe a literary agent, I’m not sure. I am open to opportuni-
ties.”
He grins.
“Very good, Ana. I don’t have any further questions. Do you?” he directs his question
at me.
“When would you like someone to start?” I ask.
“As soon as possible,” Elizabeth pipes up. “When could you start?”
“I’m available from next week.”
“That’s good to know,” Jack says.
“If that’s all anyone has to say,” Elizabeth glances at the two of us, “I think that con-
cludes the interview.” She smiles kindly.
“It’s been a pleasure to meet you, Ana,” Jack says softly as he takes my hand. He
squeezes it gently, so that I blink up at him as I say goodbye.
I feel unsettled as I make my way to my car, though I’m not sure why. I think the inter-
view went well, but it’s so hard to say. Interviews seem such artificial situations, everyone
on their best behavior trying desperately to hide behind a professional façade. Did my face
fit? I shall have to wait and see.
I climb into my Audi A3 and head back to the apartment, though I take me time. I’m on
the red-eye with a stopover in Atlanta, but my flight doesn’t leave until 10:25 this evening,
so I have plenty of time.
Kate is unpacking boxes in the kitchen when I return.
“How did they go?” she asks, excited. Only Kate can look gorgeous in an oversized
shirt, tattered jeans, and a dark blue bandana.
“Good, thanks, Kate. Not sure this outfit was cool enough for the second interview.”
“Oh?”
“Boho chic might have done it.”
Kate raises an eyebrow.“You and boho chic.” She cocks her head to one side - Gah! Why is everyone remind-
ing me of my favorite Fifty Shades? “Actually, Ana, you’re one of the few people who
could really pull that look off.”
I grin.
“I really liked the second place. I think I could fit in there. The guy who interviewed
me was unnerving though,” I trail off – shit I’m talking to foghorn Kavanagh here. Shut
up Ana!
“Oh?” The Katherine Kavanagh radar for an interesting tidbit of information swoops
into action – a tidbit that will only resurface at some inopportune and embarrassing mo-
ment, which reminds me.
“Incidentally – will you please stop winding Christian up? Your comment about José
at dinner yesterday was out of line. He’s a jealous guy. It doesn’t do any good, you know.”
“Look, if he wasn’t Elliot’s brother I’d have said a lot worse. He’s a real control freak.
I don’t know how you stand it. I was trying to make him jealous – give him a little help
with his commitment issues.” She holds her hands up defensively. “But – if you don’t want
me to interfere, I won’t,” she says hastily at my scowl.
“Good. Life with Christian is complicated enough, trust me.”
Jeez, I sound like him.
“Ana,” she pauses staring at me. “You’re okay, aren’t you? You’re not running to your
mother’s to escape?”
I flush.
“No Kate. It was you who said I needed a break.”
She closes the distance between us and takes my hands – a most un-Kate thing to do.
Oh no... tears threaten.
“You’re just, I don’t know... different. I hope you’re okay, and whatever issues you’re
having with Mr. Moneybags, you can talk to me. And I will try not to wind him up, though
frankly it’s like shooting fish in a barrel with him. Look, Ana, if something’s wrong, you
will tell me, I won’t judge. I’ll try to understand.”
I blink back tears.
“Oh, Kate.” I hug her. “I think I’ve really fallen for him.”
“Ana, anyone can see that. And he’s fallen for you. He’s mad about you. Won’t take
his eyes off you.”
I laugh uncertainly.
“Do you think so?”
“Hasn’t he told you?”
“Not in so many words.”
“Have you told him?”
“Not in so many words.” I shrug apologetically.
“Ana! Someone has to make the first move, otherwise you’ll never get anywhere.”
What... tell him how I feel?
“I’m just afraid I’ll frighten him away.”
“And how do you know he’s not feeling the same?”“Christian, afraid? I can’t imagine him being frightened of anything.” But as I say the
words, I imagine him as a small child. Maybe fear was all he knew then. Sorrow grips and
squeezes my heart at the thought.
Kate gazes at me with pursed lips and narrowed eyes, rather like my subconscious – all
she needs is the half-moon specs.
“You two need to sit down and talk to each other.”
“We haven’t been doing much talking lately.” I flush. Other stuff. Non-verbal com-
munication and that’s okay. Well, much more than okay.
She grins.
“That’ll be the sexing! If that’s going well, then that’s half the battle Ana. I’ll grab
some Chinese take-out. Are you ready to go?”
“I will be – we don’t have to leave for a couple of hours or so.”
“No – I’ll see you in twenty.” She grabs her jacket and leaves, forgetting to close the
door. I shut it behind her and head off to my bedroom mulling over her words.
Is Christian afraid of his feelings for me? Does he even have feelings for me? He
seems very keen, says I’m his – but that’s just part of his I-must-own-and-have-everything-
now – control-freak dominant self, surely. I realize that while I’m away, I will have to run
through all our conversations again and see if I can pick out telltale signs.
I’ll miss you too... more than you know...
You’ve completely beguiled me...
I shake my head. I don’t want to think about it now. I am charging the BlackBerry,
so I haven’t had it with me all afternoon. I approach it with caution, and I’m disappointed
that there are no messages. I switch on the mean machine, and there are no messages there
either. Same email address Ana – my subconscious rolls her eyes at me, and for the first
time, I understand why Christian wants to spank me when I do that.
Okay. Well, I’ll write him an email.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Interviews
Date: May 30 2011 18:49
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
My interviews went well today.
Thought you might be interested.
How was your day?
Ana
I sit and glare at the screen. Christian’s responses are usually instantaneous. I wait... and
wait, and finally I hear the welcome ping from my inbox.From: Christian Grey
Subject: My day
Date: May 30 2011 19:03
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
Everything you do interests me, you are the most fascinating woman I know.
I’m glad your interviews went well.
My morning was beyond all expectations.
My afternoon was very dull in comparison.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Fine Morning
Date: May 30 2011 19:05
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
The morning was exemplary for me too, in spite of you weirding out on me after the im-
peccable desk sex. Don’t think I didn’t notice.
Thank you for breakfast. Or thank Mrs. Jones.
I’d like to ask you questions about her – without you weirding out on me again.
Ana
My finger hovers over the send button, and I am reassured that I’ll be on the other side of
the continent this time tomorrow.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Publishing and You?
Date: May 30 2011 19:10
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
‘Weirding’ is not a verb and should not be used by anyone who wants to go into publish-
ing. Impeccable? Compared to what, pray tell? And what do you need to ask about Mrs.
Jones? I’m intrigued.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: You and Mrs. Jones
Date: May 30 2011 19:17To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
Language evolves and moves on. It is an organic thing. It is not stuck in an ivory tower,
hung with expensive works of art and overlooking most of Seattle with a helipad stuck on
its roof.
Impeccable – compared to the other times we have... what’s your word... oh yes...
fucked. Actually the fucking has been pretty impeccable, period, in my humble opinion –
but then as you know I have very limited experience.
Is Mrs. Jones an ex-sub of yours?
Ana
My finger hovers once more over the send button, and I press it.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Language. Watch Your Mouth!
Date: May 30 2011 19:22
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
Mrs. Jones is a valued employee. I have never had any relationship with her beyond
our professional one. I do not employ anyone I’ve had any sexual relations with. I am
shocked that you would think so. The only person I would make an exception to this
rule is you – because you are a bright young woman with remarkable negotiating skills.
Though, if you continue to use such language, I may have to reconsider taking you on
here. I am glad you have limited experience. Your experience will continue to be limited
– just to me. I shall take impeccable as a compliment – though with you, I’m never sure if
that’s what you mean, or if your sense of irony is getting the better of you – as usual.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc. From His Ivory Tower
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Not for all the Tea in China
Date: May 30 2011 19:27
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I think I have already expressed my reservations about working for your company. My
views on this have not changed, are not changing, and will not change, ever. I must
leave you now as Kate has returned with food. My sense of irony and I, bid you good-
night.
I will contact you once I’m in Georgia.
AnaFrom: Christian Grey
Subject: Even Twinings English Breakfast Tea?
Date: May 30 2011 19:29
To: Anastasia Steele
Goodnight Anastasia.
I hope you and your sense of irony have a safe flight.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Kate and I pull up outside the drop-off area at Sea-Tac Airport terminal. Leaning across,
she hugs me.
“Enjoy Barbados, Kate. Have a wonderful holiday.”
“I’ll see you when I get back. Don’t let old moneybags grind you down.”
“I won’t.”
We hug again – and then I’m on my own. I head over to check-in and stand in line,
waiting with my carry-on luggage. I haven’t bothered with a suitcase, just a smart rucksack
that Ray gave me for my last birthday.
“Ticket please?” The bored young man behind the desk holds up his hand without
looking at me.
Mirroring his boredom, I hand over my ticket and my driver’s license as ID. I am hop-
ing for a window seat if at all possible.
“Okay, Miss Steele. You’ve been upgraded to first class.”
“What?”
“Ma’am, if you’d like to go through to the first class lounge and await your flight
there.” He seems to have woken up and is beaming at me like I’m the Christmas Fairy and
the Easter Bunny rolled into one.
“Surely there’s some mistake.”
“No, no.” He checks his computer screen again. “Anastasia Steele – upgrade.” He
simpers at me.
Ugh. I narrow my eyes. He hands me my boarding pass, and I head towards the first
class lounge muttering under my breath. Damn Christian Grey, interfering control freak –
he just can’t leave well enough alone.I am manicured, massaged, and I’ve had two glasses of champagne. The First Class lounge
has many redeeming features. With each sip of Moet, I feel slightly more inclined to for-
give Christian and his intervention. I open up my MacBook, hoping to test the theory that
it works anywhere on the planet.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Over-Extravagant Gestures
Date: May 30 2011 21:53
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
What really alarms me is how you knew which flight I was on.
Your stalking knows no bounds. Let’s hope that Dr. Flynn is back from vacation.
I have had a manicure, a back massage, and two glasses of champagne – a very nice
start to my vacation.
Thank you.
Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: You’re Most WelcomeDate: May 30 2011 21:59
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
Dr. Flynn is back, and I have an appointment this week.
Who was massaging your back?
Christian Grey
CEO with friends in the right places, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Aha! Pay back time. Our flight has been called so I shall email him from the plane. It will
be safer. I almost hug myself with mischievous glee.
There is so much room in first class. Champagne cocktail in hand, I settle myself into the
sumptuous leather window seat as the cabin slowly fills. I call Ray to tell him where I am
– a mercifully brief call, as it’s so late for him.
“Love you, Dad,” I murmur.
“You too, Annie. Say hi to your mom. Goodnight.”
“Goodnight.” I hang up.
Ray is in good form. I stare at my Mac and with the same childish glee building.
Opening my laptop, I log into the email program.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Strong Able Hands
Date: May 30 2011 22:22
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
A very pleasant young man massaged my back. Yes. Very pleasant indeed. I wouldn’t
have encountered Jean-Paul in the ordinary departure lounge – so thank you again for
that treat. I’m not sure if I’ll be allowed to email once we take off, and I need my beauty
sleep since I’ve not been sleeping so well recently.
Pleasant dreams Mr. Grey... thinking of you.
Ana
Oh, he’s going to flip out – and I shall be airborne and out of reach. Serves him right.
If I’d been in the ordinary departure lounge then Jean-Paul wouldn’t have gotten his hands
on me. He was a very nice young man, in a blonde, perma-tanned way – honestly, who
has a tan in Seattle? It’s just so wrong. I think he was gay – but I’ll just keep that detail to
myself. I stare at my email. Kate is right. It is like shooting fish in a barrel with him. My
subconscious stares at me with an ugly twist to her mouth – do you really want to wind him
up? What he’s done is sweet, you know! He cares about you and wants you to travel instyle. Yes, but he could have asked me or told me. Not made me look like a complete klutz
at check-in. I press send and wait, feeling like a very naughty girl.
“Miss Steele, you’ll need to stow your laptop for take-off,” the over-made-up flight
attendant says politely. She makes me jump. My guilty conscience is at work.
“Oh, sorry.”
Crap. Now I’ll have to wait to know if he’s replied. She hands me a soft blanket and
pillow, showing her perfect teeth. I drape the blanket over my knees. It’s nice to feel mol-
lycoddled sometimes.
The cabin has filled up, except for the seat beside me which is still unoccupied. Oh
no... a disturbing thought crosses my mind. Perhaps the seat is Christian’s. Oh shit...
no... he wouldn’t do that. Would he? I told him I didn’t want him to come with me. I
glance anxiously at my watch and then the disembodied voice from the flight deck an-
nounces,
“Cabin crew, doors to automatic and cross check.”
What does that mean? Are they closing the doors? My scalp prickles as I sit in pal-
pitating anticipation. The seat next to me is the only unoccupied one in the sixteen-seat
cabin. The plane jolts as it pulls away from its stand, and I breathe a sigh of relief but feel
a faint tingle of disappointment too... no Christian for four days. I take a sneak peek at
my BlackBerry.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Enjoy it While You Can
Date: May 30 2011 22:25
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I know what you’re trying to do – and trust me – you’ve succeeded. Next time you’ll be
in the cargo hold, bound and gagged in a crate. Believe me when I say that attending to
you in that state will give me so much more pleasure than merely upgrading your ticket.
I look forward to your return.
Christian Grey
Palm-Twitching CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Holy crap. That’s the problem with Christian’s humor – I can be never be sure if he’s
joking or if he’s seriously angry. I suspect on this occasion he’s seriously angry. Surrepti-
tiously, so the flight attendant can’t see, I type a reply under the blanket.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Joking?
Date: May 30 2011 22:30
To: Christian GreyYou see – I have no idea if you’re joking – and if you’re not – then I think I’ll stay in Geor-
gia. Crates are a hard limit for me. Sorry I made you mad. Tell me you forgive me.
A
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Joking
Date: May 30 2011 22:31
To: Anastasia Steele
How can you be emailing? Are you risking the life of everyone on board, including your-
self, by using your BlackBerry? I think that contravenes one of the rules.
Christian Grey
Two Palms Twitching CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Two palms! I put my BlackBerry away, sit back while the plane taxis to the runway, and
pull out my tattered copy of Tess – some light reading for the journey. Once we’re air-
borne, I tip my seat back, and soon I’m drifting off to sleep.
The flight attendant wakes me as we start our descent into Atlanta. Local time is 5:45
a.m., but I’ve only had four hours sleep or so... I feel groggy, but grateful for the glass of
orange juice she hands me. I glance nervously at my BlackBerry. There are no further
emails from Christian. Well, it’s nearly three in the morning in Seattle, and he probably
wants to discourage me from screwing up the avionics system, or whatever prevents planes
from flying if mobile phones are switched on.
The wait in Atlanta is only an hour. And again I’m luxuriating in the confines of the first
class lounge. I am tempted to curl up and go to sleep on one of the plush, inviting couches
that sink softly under my weight. But it will just not be long enough. To keep myself
awake, I start a long steam of consciousness to Christian on my laptop.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Do you like to scare me?
Date: May 31 2011 06:52 EST
To: Christian Grey
You know how much I dislike you spending money on me. Yes, you’re very rich, but still
it makes me uncomfortable, like you’re paying me for sex. However, I like traveling first
class, it’s so much more civilized than coach. So thank you. I mean it – and I did enjoy
the massage from Jean Paul. He was very gay. I omitted that bit in my email to you to
wind you up, because I was annoyed with you, and I’m sorry about that.
But as usual you overreact. You can’t write things like that to me – bound and gagged
in a crate – (Were you serious or was it a joke?) That scares me... you scare me... I am
completely caught up in your spell, considering a lifestyle with you that I didn’t even knowexisted until last Saturday week, and then you write something like that and I want to run
screaming into the hills. I won’t, of course, because I’d miss you. Really miss you. I
want us to work, but I am terrified of the depth of feeling I have for you and the dark path
you’re leading me down. What you are offering is erotic and sexy, and I’m curious, but
I’m also scared you’ll hurt me – physically and emotionally. After three months you could
say goodbye, and where will that leave me if you do? But then I suppose that risk is
there in any relationship. This just isn’t the sort of relationship I ever envisaged having,
especially as my first. It’s a huge leap of faith for me.
You were right when you said I didn’t have a submissive bone in my body... and I agree
with you now. Having said that, I want to be with you, and if that’s what I have to do, I
would like to try, but I think I’ll suck at it and end up black and blue – and I don’t relish that
idea at all.
I am so happy that you have said that you will try more. I just need to think about what
‘more’ means to me, and that’s one of the reasons why I wanted some distance. You
dazzle me so much I find it very difficult to think clearly when we’re together.
They are calling my flight. I have to go.
More later
Your Ana
I press send and make my way sleepily to the departure gate to board a different plane.
This one has only six seats in first class, and once we are in the air, I curl up under my soft
blanket and fall asleep.
All too soon, I’m woken by the flight attendant offering me more orange juice as we
begin our approach to Savannah International. I sip slowly, beyond fatigued, and I allow
myself to feel a modicum of excitement. I’m going to see my mother for the first time in
six months. Sneaking another covert look at my BlackBerry, I remember vaguely that I
sent a long rambling email to Christian – but there’s nothing in response. It’s five in the
morning in Seattle – hopefully he’s still asleep and not up playing mournful laments on his
piano.
The beauty of carry-on rucksacks is that one can breeze out of the airport and not wait
endlessly for baggage at the carousels. The beauty of traveling first class is that they let
you off the plane first.
My mom is waiting with Bob, and it is so good to see them. I don’t know if it’s because
of exhaustion, the long journey, or the whole Christian situation, but as soon as I’m in my
mother’s arms, I burst into tears.
“Oh Ana, honey. You must be so tired.” She glances anxiously at Bob.
“No Mom, it’s just – I’m so pleased to see you.” I hug her tightly.
She feels so good and welcoming and home. Reluctantly, I relinquish her, and Bob
gives me an awkward one-armed hug. He seems unsteady on his feet, and I remember that
he’s hurt his leg.
“Welcome back, Ana. Why you cryin’?” he asks.“Aw, Bob, I’m just pleased to see you too.” I stare up into his handsome square-jawed
face, and his twinkling blue eyes that gaze at me fondly. I like this husband, Mom. You
can keep him. He takes my backpack.
“Jeez, Ana, what have you got in here?”
That will be the Mac, and they both put their arms around me as we head for the park-
ing lot.
I always forget how unbearably hot it is in Savannah. Leaving the cool air-conditioned
confines of the arrival terminal, we step into the Georgia heat like we’re wearing it. Whoa!
It saps everything. I have to struggle out of Mom and Bob’s embrace so I can remove
my hoodie. I am so glad I packed shorts. I miss the dry heat of Vegas sometimes, where
I lived with Mom and Bob when I was seventeen, but this wet heat, even at 8:30 in the
morning, takes some getting used to. By the time I’m in the back of Bob’s wonderfully
air-conditioned Tahoe SUV, I feel limp, and my hair has started a frizzy protest at the heat.
In the back of the SUV I quickly text Ray, Kate, and Christian:
*Arrived Safely in Savannah. A :)*
My thoughts stray briefly to José as I press send, and through the fog of my fatigue,
I remember that it’s his show next week. Should I invite Christian knowing how he feels
about José? Will Christian still want to see me after that email? I shudder at the thought,
and then put it out of my mind. I’ll deal with that later. Right now I am going to enjoy my
mom’s company.
“Honey, you must be tired. Would you like to sleep when we get home?”
“No, Mom. I’d like to go to the beach.”
I am in my blue halter neck tankini, sipping a Diet Coke, on a sun bed facing the Atlantic
Ocean, and to think that only yesterday I was staring out at the Sound toward the Pacific.
My mother lounges beside me in a ridiculously large floppy sun hat and Jackie O shades,
sipping a Coke of her own. We are on Tybee Island Beach, just three blocks from home.
She holds my hand. My fatigue has waned, and as I soak up the sun, I feel comfortable,
safe, and warm. For the first time in forever, I start to relax.
“So Ana... tell me about this man who has you in such a spin.”
Spin! How can she tell? What to say? I can’t talk about Christian in any great detail
because of the NDA, but even then, would I choose to talk to my mother about it? I blanch
at the thought.
“Well?” she prompts and squeezes my hand.
“His name’s Christian. He’s beyond handsome. He’s wealthy... too wealthy. He’s
very complicated and mercurial.”
Yes – I feel inordinately pleased with my concise, accurate summary. I turn on my
side to face her, just as she makes the same move. She gazes at me with her crystal-clear
blue eyes.
“Complicated and mercurial are the two pieces of information I want to concentrate
on, Ana.”Oh no...
“Oh, Mom, his mood-swings make me dizzy. He’s had a grim upbringing, so he’s very
closed, difficult to gauge.”
“Do you like him?”
“I more than like him.”
“Really?” She gapes at me.
“Yes, Mom.”
“Men aren’t really complicated, Ana, honey. They are very simple, literal creatures.
They usually mean what they say. And we spend hours trying to analyze what they’ve said
– when really it’s obvious. If I were you, I’d take him literally. That might help.”
I gape at her. This sounds like good advice. Take Christian literally. Immediately some
of the things he’s said spring into my mind.
I don’t want to lose you...
You’ve bewitched me...
You’ve completely beguiled me...
I’ll miss you too... more than you know...
I gaze at my mom. She is on her fourth marriage. Maybe she does know something
about men after all.
“Most men are moody darling, some more than others. Take your father for in-
stance...,” Her eyes soften and sadden whenever she thinks of my dad. My real dad, this
mythical man I never knew, snatched so cruelly from us in a combat training accident when
he was a marine. Part of me thinks my mom has been looking for someone like my dad
all this time... maybe she’s finally found what she’s looking for in Bob. Pity she couldn’t
find it with Ray.
“I used to think your father was moody. But now when I look back, I just think he was
too caught up in his job and trying to make a life for us.” She sighs. “He was so young,
we both were. Maybe that was the issue.”
Hmm... Christian is not exactly old. I smile fondly at her. She can become very soul-
ful thinking about my father, but I’m sure he had nothing on Christian’s moods.
“Bob wants to take us out tonight for dinner. To his golf club.”
“Oh no! Bob’s started playing golf?” I scoff in disbelief.
“Tell me about it,” groans my mother, rolling her eyes.
After a light lunch back at the house, I start to unpack. I am going to treat myself to a si-
esta. My mother has disappeared to mold some candles or whatever she does with them,
and Bob is at work, so I have time to catch up on some sleep. I open the Mac and fire it up.
It’s two in the afternoon in Georgia, eleven in the morning in Seattle. I wonder if I have a
reply from Christian. Nervously, I log into the email program.
From: Christian GreySubject: Finally!
Date: May 31 2011 07:30
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
I am annoyed that as soon as you put some distance between us, you communicate
openly and honestly with me. Why can’t you do that when we’re together?
Yes, I’m rich. Get used to it. Why shouldn’t I spend money on you? We’ve told your
father I’m your boyfriend, for heaven’s sake. Isn’t that what boyfriends do? As your Dom,
I would expect you to accept whatever I spend on you with no argument. Incidentally, tell
your mother too.
I don’t know how to answer your comment about feeling like a whore. I know that’s not
what you’ve written, but it’s what you imply. I don’t know what I can say or do to eradi-
cate these feelings. I’d like you to have the best of everything. I work exceptionally hard,
so I can spend my money as I see fit. I could buy you your heart’s desire, Anastasia, and
I want to. Call it redistribution of wealth if you will. Or simply know that I would not, could
not ever think of you in the way you described, and I’m angry that’s how you perceive
yourself. For such a bright, witty, beautiful young woman you have some real self-esteem
issues, and I have a half a mind to make an appointment for you with Dr. Flynn.
I apologize for frightening you. I find the thought of instilling fear in you abhorrent. Do
you really think I’d let you travel in the hold? I offered you my private jet for heaven’s
sake. Yes it was a joke, a poor one obviously. However, the fact is – the thought of you
bound and gagged turns me on (this is not a joke – it’s true). I can lose the crate – crates
do nothing for me. I know you have issues with gagging, we’ve talked about that and if/
when I do gag you, we’ll discuss it. What I think you fail to realize is that in Dom/sub
relationships it is the sub that has all the power. That’s you. I’ll repeat this – you are the
one with all the power. Not I. In the boathouse you said no. I can’t touch you if you say
no – that’s why we have an agreement – what you will and won’t do. If we try things and
you don’t like them, we can revise the agreement. It’s up to you – not me. And if you
don’t want to be bound and gagged in a crate, then it won’t happen.
I want to share my lifestyle with you. I have never wanted anything so much. Frankly I’m
in awe of you, that one so innocent would be willing to try. That says more to me than
you could ever know. You fail to see I am caught in your spell, too, even though I have
told you this countless times. I don’t want to lose you. I am nervous that you’ve flown
three thousand miles to get away from me for a few days, because you can’t think clearly
around me. It’s the same for me Anastasia. My reason vanishes when we’re together –
that’s the depth of my feeling for you.
I understand your trepidation. I did try to stay away from you; I knew you were inexperi-
enced, though I would never have pursued you if I had known exactly how innocent you
were – and yet you still manage to disarm me completely in a way that nobody has be-
fore. Your email for example: I have read and re-read it countless times trying to under-
stand your point of view. Three months is an arbitrary amount of time. We could make it
six months, a year? How long do you want it to be? What would make you comfortable?
Tell me.
I understand that this is a huge leap of faith for you. I have to earn your trust, but by the
same token, you have to communicate with me when I am failing to do this. You seem
so strong and self-contained, and then I read what you’ve written here, and I see another
side to you. We have to guide each other Anastasia, and I can only take my cues from
you. You have to be honest with me, and we have to both find a way to make this ar-
rangement work.
You worry about not being submissive. Well maybe that’s true. Having said that, the onlytime you do assume the correct demeanor for a sub is in the playroom. It seems that’s
the one place where you let me exercise proper control over you, and the only place you
do as you’re told. Exemplary is the term that comes to mind. And I’d never beat you
black and blue. I aim for pink. Outside the playroom, I like that you challenge me. It’s a
very novel and refreshing experience, and I wouldn’t want to change that. So yes, tell me
what you want in terms of more. I will endeavor to keep an open mind, and I shall try and
give you the space you need and stay away from you while you are in Georgia. I look
forward to your next email.
In the meantime, enjoy yourself. But not too much.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Holy crap. He’s written an essay like we’re back at school – and most of it good. My heart
is in my mouth as I re-read his epistle, and I huddle on the spare bed practically hugging
my Mac. Make our agreement a year? I have the power! Jeez, I’m going to have to think
about that. Take him literally, that’s what my mother says. He doesn’t want to lose me.
He’s said that twice! He wants to make this work too. Oh Christian, so do I! He’s going
to try and stay away! Does this mean he might fail to stay away? Suddenly, I hope so. I
want to see him. We’ve been apart less than twenty-four hours, and knowing that I can’t
see him for four days, I realize how much I miss him. How much I love him.
“Ana, honey.” The voice is soft and warm, full of love and sweet memories of times gone
by.
A gentle hand brushes my face. My mom wakes me, and I’m wrapped around my
laptop, hugging it to me.
“Ana, sweetheart,” she continues in her soft singsong voice while I surface from sleep,
blinking in the pale pink light of dusk.
“Hi, Mom.” I stretch out and smile.
“We’re going out for dinner in thirty minutes. You still want to come?” she asks kindly.
“Oh, yes, Mom, of course.” I try very hard, but fail to stifle my yawn.
“Now that’s an impressive piece of technology.” She points to my laptop.
Oh crap.
“Oh... this?” I strive for casual, surprised nonchalance.
Will Mom notice? She seems to have grown more astute since I acquired a ‘boyfriend’.
“Christian lent it to me. I think I could pilot the space shuttle with it, but I just use it
for emails and Internet access.”
Really it’s nothing. Eyeing me suspiciously, she sits down on the bed and tucks a stray
lock of hair behind my ear.“Has he emailed you?”
Oh double crap.
“Yeah.” My nonchalance is wearing thin, and I flush.
“Perhaps he’s missing you, huh?”
“I hope so, Mom.”
“What does he say?”
Oh triple crap. I frantically try to think of something acceptable from that email I can
tell my mother. I’m sure she doesn’t want to hear about Doms and bondage and gagging,
but then I can’t tell her because there’s the NDA.
“He’s told me to enjoy myself, but not too much.”
“Sounds reasonable. I’ll leave you to get ready, honey.” Leaning over, she kisses my
forehead. “I’m so glad you’re here, Ana. It’s wonderful to see you.” And with that loving
statement, she leaves.
Hmm, Christian and reasonable... two concepts that I thought were mutually exclu-
sive, but after his email, maybe all things are possible. I shake my head. I will need time
to digest his words. Probably after dinner – and I can reply to him then. I climb out of bed
and quickly slip out of my t-shirt and shorts, and head to the shower.
I have brought Kate’s gray halter-neck dress that I wore for my graduation. It’s the
only dressy item I have. One good thing about the heat is that the creases have dropped
out, so I think it will do for the golf club. As I dress, I wake the laptop up. There is nothing
new from Christian, and I feel a stab of disappointment. Very quickly, I type him an email.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Verbose?
Date: May 31 2011 19:08 EST
To: Christian Grey
Sir, you are quite the loquacious writer. I have to go to dinner at Bob’s golf club, and just
so you know, I am rolling my eyes at the thought. But you and your twitchy palm are a
long way from me so my behind is safe, for now. I loved your email. Will respond when I
can. I miss you already.
Enjoy your afternoon.
Your Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your behind
Date: May 31 2011 16:10
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I am distracted by the title of this email. Needless to say it is safe – for now.
Enjoy your dinner, and I miss you too, especially your behind and your smart mouth.
My afternoon will be dull, brightened only by thoughts of you and your eye rolling. I think
it was you who so judiciously pointed out to me that I too suffer from that nasty habit.Christian Grey
CEO & Eye Roller, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Eye Rolling
Date: May 31 2011 19:14 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
Stop emailing me. I am trying to get ready for dinner. You are very distracting, even
when you are on the other side of the continent. And yes – who spanks you when you
roll your eyes?
Your Ana
I press send, and immediately the image of that evil witch Mrs. Robinson comes into my
mind. I just can’t picture it. Christian being beaten by someone as old as my mother, it’s
just so wrong. Again I wonder what damage she’s wrought. My mouth sets in a hard grim
line. I need a doll to stick pins in, maybe that way I can vent some of the anger I feel at
this stranger.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your behind
Date: May 31 2011 16:18
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I still prefer my title to yours, in so many different ways. It is lucky that I am master of my
own destiny and no one castigates me. Except my mother occasionally and Dr. Flynn, of
course. And you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Chastising... Me?
Date: May 31 2011 19:22 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
When have I ever plucked up the nerve to chastise you, Mr. Grey? I think you are mixing
me up with someone else... which is very worrying. I really do have to get ready.
Your AnaFrom: Christian Grey
Subject: Your behind
Date: May 31 2011 16:25
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
You do it all the time in print. Can I zip up your dress?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
For some unknown reason, his words leap out of the page and make me gasp. Oh... he
wants to play games.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: NC-17
Date: May 31 2011 19:28 EST
To: Christian Grey
I would rather you unzipped it.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Careful what you wish for...
Date: May 31 2011 16:31
To: Anastasia Steele
SO WOULD I.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Panting
Date: May 31 2011 19:33 EST
To: Christian Grey
Slowly...
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Groaning
Date: May 31 2011 16:35
To: Anastasia Steele
Wish I was there.Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Moaning
Date: May 31 2011 19:37 EST
To: Christian Grey
SO DO I
“Ana!” My mother calls me, making me jump. Shit. Why do I feel so guilty?
“Just coming, Mom.”
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Moaning
Date: May 31 2011 19:39 EST
To: Christian Grey
Gotta go.
Laters, baby.
I dash into the hall where Bob and my mother are waiting. My mother frowns.
“Darling - are you feeling ok? You look at bit flushed.”
“Mom, I’m fine.”
“You look lovely, dear.”
“Oh, this is Kate’s dress. You like it?”
Her frown deepens.
“Why are you wearing Kate’s dress?”
Oh... no.
“Well I like this one and she doesn’t,” I improvise quickly.
She regards me shrewdly while Bob oozes impatience with his hangdog, hungry look.
“I’ll take you shopping tomorrow,” she says.
“Oh, Mom, you don’t need to do that. I have plenty of clothes.”
“Can’t I do something for my own daughter? Come on, Bob’s starving.”
“Too right,” moans Bob, rubbing his stomach and assuming a fake pained expression.
I giggle as he rolls his eyes, and we head out the door.Later when I’m in the shower, cooling under the lukewarm water, I reflect on how much
my mother has changed. Seeing her at dinner, she was in her element, funny and flirty
and amongst many friends at the golf club. Bob was warm and attentive... they seem so
good for each other. I’m really pleased for her. It means I can stop worrying about her and
second-guessing her decisions and put the dark days of Husband Number Three behind us
both. Bob is a keeper. And she’s giving me good advice. When did that start happening?
Since I met Christian. Why is that?
When I’m done, I dry myself quickly, keen to get back to Christian. There’s an email
waiting for me, sent just after I left for dinner a few hours ago.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Plagiarism
Date: May 31 2011 16:41
To: Anastasia Steele
You stole my line.
And left me hanging.
Enjoy your dinner.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Who are you to cry thief?
Date: May 31 2011 22:18 EST
To: Christian Grey
Sir, I think you’ll find it was Elliot’s line originally.
Hanging how?
Your Ana
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Unfinished Business
Date: May 31 2011 19:22
To: Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
You’re back. You left so suddenly - just when things were getting interesting.
Elliot’s not very original. He’ll have stolen that line from someone.
How was dinner?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Unfinished Business?
Date: May 31 2011 22:26 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dinner was filling – you’ll be very pleased to hear, I ate far too much.
Getting interesting? How?
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Unfinished Business - definitely
Date: May 31 2011 19:30
To: Anastasia Steele
Are you being deliberately obtuse? I think you’d just asked me to unzip your dress.
And I was looking forward to doing just that. I am also glad to hear you are eating.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Well... there’s always the weekend
Date: May 31 2011 22:36 EST
To: Christian Grey
Of course I eat... It’s only the uncertainty I feel around you that puts me off my food.
And I would never be unwittingly obtuse, Mr. Grey.
Surely you’ve worked that out by now ;)
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Can’t Wait
Date: May 31 2011 19:40
To: Anastasia Steele
I shall remember that, Miss Steele, and no doubt use the knowledge to my advantage.
I’m sorry to hear that I put you off your food. I thought I had a more concupiscent effect
on you. That has been my experience, and most pleasurable it has been too.
I very much look forward to the next time.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Gymnastic Linguistics
Date: May 31 2011 22:36 EST
To: Christian GreyHave you been playing with the thesaurus again?
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Rumbled
Date: May 31 2011 19:40
To: Anastasia Steele
You know me so well Miss Steele.
I am having dinner with an old friend now so I will be driving.
Laters, baby©
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Which old friend? I didn’t think Christian had any old friends, except... her. I frown at the
screen. Why does he have to still see her? Searing, green, bilious jealousy courses through
me unexpectedly. I want to hit something, preferably Mrs. Robinson. Switching the laptop
off in a temper, I clamber into bed.
I should really respond to his long email from this morning, but I’m suddenly too
angry. Why can’t he see her for what she is – a child molester? I switch off the light,
seething, staring into the darkness. How dare she? How dare she pick on a vulnerable
adolescent? Is she still doing it? Why did they stop? Various scenarios filter through my
mind: he had had enough, then why is he still friends with her? Ditto her – is she mar-
ried? Divorced? Jeez – does she have children of her own? Does she have Christian’s
children? My subconscious rears her ugly head, leering, and I’m shocked and nauseous at
the thought. Does Dr. Flynn know about her?
I struggle out of bed and fire the mean machine up again. I am on a mission. I drum
my fingers impatiently waiting for the blue screen to appear. I hit Google images and
enter ‘Christian Grey’ into the search engine. The screen is suddenly littered with images
of Christian: in black tie, be-suited, jeez – José’s pictures from the Heathman, in his white
shirt and flannel trousers. How did they get on the Internet? Boy he looks good.
I move quickly on: some with business associates, then picture after glorious picture
of the most photogenic man I know, intimately. Intimately? Do I know Christian inti-
mately? I know him sexually, and I figure there’s a lot more to discover there. I know he’s
moody, difficult, funny, cold, warm... jeez, the man is a walking mass of contradictions. I
click to the next page. He’s still on his own in all these photographs, and I remember Kate
mentioning that she couldn’t find any photographs of him with a date, prompting her gay
question. Then, on the third page, there’s a picture of me, with him, at my graduation. His
only picture with a woman, and it’s me.
Holy cow! I’m on Google! I stare at us together. I look surprised by the camera,
nervous, off balance. This was just before I agreed to try. For his part, Christian looks
impossibly handsome, calm and collected, and he’s wearing that tie. I gaze at him, such abeautiful face, a beautiful face that could be staring at Mrs. Damned Robinson right now. I
save the picture in my favorites and click through all eighteen screens... nothing. I won’t
find Mrs. Robinson on Google. But I have to know if he’s with her. I type a quick email
to Christian.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Suitable Dinner Companions
Date: May 31 2011 23:58 EST
To: Christian Grey
I hope you and your friend had a very pleasant dinner.
Ana
PS Was it Mrs. Robinson?
I press send and climb despondently back into bed, resolving to ask Christian about his re-
lationship with that woman. Part of me is desperate to know more, and another part wants
to forget he ever told me. And my period has started, so I must remember to take my pill
in the morning. I quickly program an alarm into the calendar on my BlackBerry. Setting
it aside on the bedside table, I lie down and eventually drift into an uneasy sleep, wishing
that we were in the same city, not two and half thousand miles apart.
After a morning of shopping and an afternoon back at the beach, my mother has decreed
we should spend the evening in a bar. Abandoning Bob to the TV, we find ourselves in the
up-market bar of Savannah’s most exclusive hotel. I am on my second Cosmopolitan. My
mother is on her third. She is offering more insights into the fragile male ego. It’s very
disconcerting.
“You see, Ana, men think that anything that comes out of a woman’s mouth is a prob-
lem to be solved. Not some vague idea that we’d like to kick around and talk about for a
while and then forget. Men prefer action.”
“Mom, why are telling me this?” I ask, failing to hide my exasperation. She’s been
like this all day.
“Darling, you sound so lost. You’ve never brought a boy home. You never even had a
boyfriend when we were in Vegas. I thought something might develop with that guy you
met in college, José.”
“Mom, José’s just a friend.”
“I know, sweetheart. But something’s up, and I don’t think you’re telling me every-
thing.” She gazes at me, her face etched with motherly concern.“I just needed some distance from Christian to get my thoughts straight... that’s all.
He tends to overwhelm me.”
“Overwhelm?”
“Yeah. I miss him though.” I frown.
I have not heard from Christian all day. No emails, nothing. I am tempted to call him
to see if he’s okay. My worst fear is that he’s been in a car accident, my second worst fear is
that Mrs. Robinson has got her evil claws into him again. I know it’s irrational, but where
she’s concerned, I seem to have lost all sense of perspective.
“Darling, I have to visit the powder room.”
My mother’s brief absence allows me another chance to check my BlackBerry. I have
been trying surreptitiously to check emails all day. Finally – a response from Christian!
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Dinner Companions
Date: June 1 2011 21:40 EST
To: Anastasia Steele
Yes, I had dinner with Mrs. Robinson. She is just an old friend, Anastasia.
Looking forward to seeing you again. I miss you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
He was having dinner with her. My scalp prickles as adrenaline and fury lance through my
body, all my worst fears realized, crashing through me. How could he? I am away for two
days, and he runs off to that evil bitch.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: OLD Dinner Companions
Date: June 1 2011 21:42 EST
To: Christian Grey
She’s not just an old friend.
Has she found another adolescent boy to sink her teeth into?
Did you get too old for her?
Is that the reason your relationship finished?
I press send as my mother returns.
“Ana, you’re so pale. What’s happened?”
I shake my head.
“Nothing. Let’s have another drink,” I mutter mulishly.Her brow furrows, but she glances up and attracts the attention of one of the waiters,
pointing to our glasses. He nods. He understands the universal language of ‘same again,
please.’ As she does, I quickly glance at my BlackBerry.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Careful...
Date: June 1 2011 21:45 EST
To: Anastasia Steele
This is not something I wish to discuss via email.
How many Cosmopolitans are you going to drink?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Holy fuck, he’s here.I glance nervously around the bar but cannot see him.
“Ana, what is it? You look like you’ve seen a ghost.”
“It’s Christian, he’s here.”
“What? Really?” She glances around the bar too.
I have neglected to mention Christian’s stalker tendencies to my mom.
I see him. My heart leaps, beginning a juddering thumping beat as he makes his way
toward us. He’s really here – for me. My inner goddess leaps up cheering from her chaise
longue. Moving smoothly through the crowd, his hair glints burnished copper and red un-
der the recessed halogens. His bright gray eyes are shining with – anger? Tension? His
mouth is set in a grim line, jaw tense. Oh holy shit... no. I am so mad at him right now,
and here he is. How can I be angry with him in front of my mother?
He arrives at our table, gazing at me warily. He’s dressed in customary white linen
shirt and jeans.
“Hi,” I squeak, unable to hide my shock and awe at seeing him here in the flesh.
“Hi,” he replies, and leaning down, he kisses my cheek, taking me by surprise.
“Christian, this is my mother, Carla.” My ingrained manners take over.
He turns to greet my mom.
“Mrs. Adams, I am delighted to meet you.”How does he know her name? He gives her the heart-stopping, Christian Grey pat-
ented, full-blown-no-prisoners-taken smile. She doesn’t have a hope. My mother’s lower
jaw practically hits the table. Jeez, get a grip Mom. She takes his proffered hand and they
shake. My mother hasn’t replied. Oh, complete dumbfounded speechlessness is genetic
– I had no idea.
“Christian,” she manages finally, breathlessly.
He smiles knowingly at her, his gray eyes twinkling. I narrow my eyes at them both.
“What are you doing here?” My question sounds more brittle than I mean, and his
smile disappears, his expression now guarded. I am thrilled to see him, but completely
thrown off balance, my anger about Mrs. Robinson simmering through my veins. I don’t
know if I want to shout at him or throw myself into his arms – but I don’t think he’d like
either – and I want to know how long he has been watching us. I’m also a little anxious
about the email I just sent him.
“I came to see you, of course.” He gazes down at me impassively. Oh, what is he think-
ing? “I’m staying in this hotel.”
“You’re staying here?” I sound like a sophomore on amphetamines, too high-pitched
even for my own ears.
“Well, yesterday you said you wished I was here.” He pauses trying to gauge my reac-
tion. “We aim to please, Miss Steele.” His voice is quiet with no trace of humor.
Crap – Is he mad? Maybe the Mrs. Robinson comments? Or the fact that I am on my
third, soon to be fourth Cosmo? My mother is glancing anxiously at the two of us.
“Won’t you join us for a drink, Christian?” She waves to the waiter who is at her side
in a nanosecond.
“I’ll have a gin and tonic,” Christian says. “Hendricks if you have it or Bombay Sap-
phire. Cucumber with the Hendricks, lime with the Bombay.”
Holy hell... only Christian could make a meal out of ordering a drink.
“And two more Cosmos please,” I add, looking anxiously at Christian. I am drinking
with my mother – no way can he be angry about that.
“Please pull up a chair, Christian.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Adams.”
Christian pulls a nearby chair over and sits gracefully down beside me.
“So you just happen to be staying in the hotel where we’re drinking?” I ask, trying hard
to keep my tone light.
“Or, you just happen to be drinking in the hotel where I’m staying,” Christian replies.
“I just finished dinner, came in here, and saw you. I was distracted thinking about your
most recent email, and I glance up and there you are. Quite a coincidence, eh?” He cocks
his head to one side, and I see a trace of a smile. Thank heavens – we may be able to save
the evening after all.
“My mother and I were shopping this morning and on the beach this afternoon. We
decided on a few cocktails this evening,” I mutter, feeling that I owe him some sort of
explanation.
“Did you buy that top?” He nods at my brand new green silk camisole, “The color suits
you. And you’ve caught some sun. You look lovely.”
I flush, speechless at his compliment.“Well, I was going to pay you a visit tomorrow. But here you are.”
He reaches over, takes my hand, and squeezes it gently, running his thumb across my
knuckles to and fro... and I feel the familiar pull. The electric charge zapping beneath my
skin under the gentle pressure from his thumb, firing into my blood stream and pulsing
around my body, heating everything in its path. It’s been over two days since I saw him.
Oh my... I want him. My breath hitches. I blink at him, smiling shyly, and see a smile play
on his beautiful, sculptured lips.
“I thought I’d surprise you. But as ever, Anastasia, you surprise me by being here.”
I glance quickly at Mom who is staring at Christian... yes staring! Stop it Mom. As if
he’s some exotic creature, never seen before. I mean, I know I’ve never had a boyfriend,
and Christian only qualifies as such for ease of reference – but is it so unbelievable that I
could attract a man? This man? Yes, frankly – look at him – my subconscious snaps. Oh,
shut up! Who invited you to the party? I scowl at my mom – but she doesn’t seem to notice.
“I don’t want to interrupt the time you have with your mother. I’ll have a quick drink
and then retire. I have work to do,” he states earnestly.
“Christian, it’s lovely to meet you finally,” Mom interjects, finally finding her voice.
“Ana has spoken very fondly of you.”
He smiles at her.
“Really?” He raises an eyebrow at me, an amused expression on his face, and I flush
again.
The waiter arrives with our drinks.
“Hendricks, sir,” he says with a triumphant flourish.
“Thank you,” Christian murmurs in acknowledgement.
I sip my latest Cosmo nervously.
“How long are you in Georgia, Christian?” Mom asks.
“Until Friday, Mrs. Adams.”
“Will you have dinner with us tomorrow evening? And please, call me Carla.”
“I’d be delighted to, Carla.”
“Excellent. If you two will excuse me, I need to visit the powder room.”
Mom... you’ve just been. I look at her desperately as she stands and walks off, leaving
us alone together.
“So, you’re mad at me for having dinner with an old friend.” Christian turns his burn-
ing, wary gaze to me, lifting my hand to his lips and kissing each knuckle gently.
Jeez, he wants to do this now?
“Yes,” I murmur as my heated blood courses through me.
“Our sexual relationship was over long ago, Anastasia,” he whispers. “I don’t want
anyone but you. Haven’t you worked that out yet?”
I blink at him.
“I think of her as a child molester, Christian.” I hold my breath waiting for his reaction.
Christian blanches.
“That’s very judgmental. It wasn’t like that,” he whispers, shocked. He releases my
hand.
Judgmental?
“Oh, how was it then?” I ask. The Cosmos are making me brave.He frowns at me, bewildered. I continue.
“She took advantage of a vulnerable fifteen-year-old boy. If you had been a fifteen-
year-old girl and Mrs. Robinson was a Mr. Robinson, tempting you into a BDSM lifestyle,
that would have been okay? If it was Mia, say?”
He gasps and scowls at me.
“Ana, it wasn’t like that.”
I glare at him.
“Okay, it didn’t feel like that to me,” he continues quietly. “She was a force for good.
What I needed.”
“I don’t understand.” It’s my turn to look bewildered.
“Anastasia, your mother will be back shortly. I’m not comfortable talking about this
now. Later maybe. If you don’t want me here, I have a plane on stand-by at Hilton Head.
I can go.”
He’s angry with me... no.
“No – don’t go. Please. I’m thrilled you’re here. I’m just trying to make you under-
stand. I’m angry that as soon as I left, you had dinner with her. Think about how you are
when I get anywhere near José. José is a good friend. I have never had a sexual relation-
ship with him. Whereas you and her,” I trail off, unwilling to take that thought further.
“You’re jealous?” He stares at me, dumbfounded, and his eyes soften slightly, warm-
ing.
“Yes, and angry about what she did to you.”
“Anastasia, she helped me, that’s all I’ll say about that. And as for your jealousy, put
yourself in my shoes. I haven’t had to justify my actions to anyone in the last seven years.
Not one person. I do as I wish, Anastasia. I like my autonomy. I didn’t go and see Mrs.
Robinson to upset you. I went because every now and then we have dinner. She’s a friend
and a business partner.”
Business partner? Holy crap. This is news.
He gazes at me, assessing my expression.
“Yes, we’re business partners. The sex is over between us. It has been for years.”
“Why did your relationship finish?”
His mouth narrows, and his eyes gleam.
“Her husband found out.”
Holy shit!
“Can we talk about this some other time – somewhere more private?” he growls.
“I don’t think you’ll ever convince me that she’s not some kind of paedophile.”
“I don’t think of her that way. I never have. Now that’s enough!” he snaps.
“Did you love her?”
“How are you two getting on?” My mother has returned, unseen by either of us.
I plaster a fake smile on my face as both Christian and I lean back hastily... guiltily.
She gazes at me.
“Fine, Mom.”
Christian sips his drink, watching me closely, his expression guarded. What is he
thinking? Did he love her? I think if he did, I will lose it, big time.
“Well ladies, I shall leave you to your evening.”No... no... he can’t leave me hanging like this.
“Please put these drinks on my tab, room number 612. I’ll call on you in the morning,
Anastasia. Until tomorrow, Carla.”
“Oh, it’s so nice to hear someone use your full name.”
“Beautiful name for a beautiful girl,” Christian murmurs, shaking her outstretched
hands, and she actually simpers.
Oh Mom, – et tu Bruté? I stand, gazing up at him, imploring him to answer my ques-
tion, and he kisses my cheek, chastely.
“Laters, baby,” he whispers in my ear. Then he’s gone.
Damned control-freak-bastard. My anger returns in full force. I slump into my chair
and turn to face my mother.
“Well strike me down with a feather, Ana. He’s a catch. I don’t know what’s going on
between you two though. I think you need to talk to each other. Phew – the UST in here,
it’s unbearable.” She fans herself theatrically.
“MOM!”
“Go talk to him.”
“I can’t. I came here to see you.”
“Ana, you came here because you’re confused about that boy. It’s obvious you two are
crazy about each other. You need to talk to him. He’s just flown three thousand odd miles
to see you, for heaven’s sake. And you know how awful it is to fly.”
I flush. I haven’t told her about his private plane.
“What?” she snaps at me.
“He has his own plane,” I mumble, embarrassed, and it’s only two and a half thousand
miles, Mom.
Why am I embarrassed? Her eyebrows shoot up.
“Wow,” she mutters. “Ana, there’s something going on between you two. I’ve been
trying to fathom it since you arrived here. But the only way you are going to sort the prob-
lem, whatever it is, is to talk it through with him. You can do all the thinking you like – but
until you actually talk, you’re not going to get anywhere.”
I frown at my mother.
“Ana, honey, you’ve always had a tendency to over-analyze everything. Go with your
gut. What does that tell you, sweetheart?”
I stare at my fingers.
“I think I’m in love with him,” I mutter.
“I know darling. And he with you.”
“No!”
“Yes, Ana. Hell – what do you need? A neon sign flashing on his forehead?”
I gape at her and tears prick the corner of my eyes.
“Ana, darling. Don’t cry.”
“I don’t think he loves me.”
“I don’t care how rich you are, you don’t drop everything and get in your private plane
to cross a whole continent just for afternoon tea. Go to him! This is a beautiful location,
very romantic. It’s also neutral territory.”
I squirm under her gaze. I want to go and I don’t.“Darling, don’t feel you have to come back with me. I want you happy – and right now
I think the key to your happiness is upstairs in room 612. If you need to come home later,
the key is under the Yucca plant on the front porch. If you stay – well... you’re a big girl
now. Just be safe.”
I flush stars and stripes red. Jeez, Mom.
“Let’s finish our Cosmos first.”
“That’s my girl, Ana.” She grins.
I knock timidly on room 612 and wait. Christian opens the door. He’s on his cell. He
blinks at me in complete surprise, then holds the door open wide and beckons me into his
room.
“All the redundancy packages concluded?... And the cost?... ” Christian whistles be-
tween his teeth. “Sheesh... that was one expensive mistake... And Lucas? ... ”
I glance around the room. He’s in a suite, like the one at the Heathman. The fur-
nishings here are ultra modern, very now. All muted dark purples and golds with bronze
starbursts on the walls. Christian walks over to dark wood unit and pulls open a door to
reveal a mini-bar. He indicates that I should help myself, then wanders into the bedroom.
I assume it’s so I can no longer hear his conversation. I shrug. He didn’t stop his call when
I entered his study that time. I hear water running... he’s filling a bath. I help myself to an
orange juice. He ambles back into the room.
“Have Andrea send me the schematics. Barney said he’d cracked the problem... ”
Christian laughs. “No, Friday... There’s a plot of land here that I’m interested in... Yeah,
get Bill to call... No, tomorrow... I want to see what Georgia will offer if we move in.”
Christian doesn’t take his eyes off me. Handing me a glass, he points to an ice bucket.
“If their incentives are attractive enough... I think we should consider it, though I’m
not sure about the damned heat here... I agree Detroit has its advantages too, and it’s
cooler... ” His face darkens momentarily. Why? “Get Bill to call. Tomorrow... Not too
early.” He hangs up and stares at me, his face unreadable, and the silence stretches between
us.
Okay... my turn to talk.
“You didn’t answer my question,” I murmur.
“No. I didn’t,” he says quietly, his gray eyes wide and cautious.
“No you didn’t answer my question or no you didn’t love her?”
He folds his arms and leans against the wall, and a small smile plays upon his lips.
“What are you doing here, Anastasia?”
“I’ve just told you.”
He takes a deep breath.
“No. I didn’t love her.” He frowns at me, amused yet puzzled.
I can’t believe I’m holding my breath. I sag like an old cloth sack as I release it. Well,
thank heavens for that. How would I feel if he actually loved the witch?
“You’re quite the green-eyed goddess, Anastasia. Who would have thought?”
“Are you making fun of me, Mr. Grey?”“I wouldn’t dare.” He shakes his head solemnly, but he has a wicked gleam in his eye.
“Oh, I think you would, and I think you do – often.”
He smirks as I give him back the words he’s said to me before. His eyes darken.
“Please stop biting your lip. You’re in my room, I haven’t set eyes on you for nearly
three days, and I’ve flown a long way to see you.” His tone has changed to soft, sensual.
His BlackBerry buzzes, distracting us both, and he switches it off without glancing to
see who it is. My breath hitches. I know where this is going... but we’re supposed to talk.
He takes a step towards me wearing his sexy predatory look.
“I want you, Anastasia. Now. And you want me. That’s why you’re here.”
“I really did want to know,” I whisper as a defense.
“Well, now you that you do, are you coming or going?”
I flush as he comes to a halt in front of me.
“Coming,” I murmur, staring anxiously up at him.
“Oh, I hope so.” He gazes down at me. “You were so mad at me,” he breathes.
“Yes.”
“I don’t remember anyone but my family ever being mad at me. I like it.”
He runs the tips of fingers down my cheek. Oh my, his proximity, his delicious Chris-
tian smell. We’re supposed to be talking, but my heart is pounding, my blood singing as
it courses through my body, desire, pooling, unfurling... everywhere. Christian bends and
runs his nose along my shoulder and up to the base of my ear, his fingers slipping into my
hair.
“We should talk.” I whisper.
“Later.”
“There’s so much I want to say.”
“Me too.”
He plants a soft kiss under my earlobe while his fingers tighten in my hair. Pulling
my head back, he exposes my throat to his lips. His teeth skim my chin, and he kisses my
throat.
“I want you,” he breathes.
I moan and reach up and grasp his arms.
“Are you bleeding?” He continues to kiss me.
Holy Fuck. Does nothing slip by him?
“Yes,” I whisper, embarrassed.
“Do you have cramps?”
“No.” I flush. Jeez...
He stops and looks down at me.
“Did you take your pill?”
“Yes.” How mortifying is this?
“Let’s go have a bath.”
Oh?
He takes my hand and leads me into the bedroom. It’s dominated by a super-king
size bed with elaborate drapes. But we don’t stop there. He takes me into the bathroom
which is two rooms, all aquamarines and white limestone. It’s huge – In the second room
a sunken bath, big enough for four people with stone steps that lead into it, is slowly fillingwith water. Steam rises gently above the foam, and I notice a stone seat all the way round.
Candles flicker to the side. Wow... he’s done all this while on the phone.
“Do you have a hair tie?”
I blink at him, fish into my jeans pocket, and pull out a hair elastic.
“Put your hair up,” he orders softly. I do as he asks.
It’s warm and sultry beside the bath, and my camisole starts to stick. He leans over and
shuts off the faucet. leadingL me back into the first part of the bathroom,he stands behind
me as we face the wall-sized mirror above the two glass sinks.
“Lift up your arms,” he breathes. I do as I’m told, and he lifts my camisole over my
head so that I’m topless standing in front of him. Not taking his eyes off mine, he reaches
around and undoes the top button on my jeans and the zipper.
“I’m going to have you in the bathroom, Anastasia.”
Leaning down, he kisses my neck. I move my head to one side and give him easier
access. Hooking his thumbs into my jeans, he slowly slides them down my legs, sinking
down behind me as he pulls them and my panties to the floor.
“Step out of your jeans.”
Grasping the edge of the sink, I do just that. I am now naked, staring at myself, and
he’s kneeling behind me. He kisses and then softly bites my behind, making me gasp. He
stands and stares at me once more in the mirror. I try hard to stay still, ignoring my natu-
ral inclination to cover myself. He splays his hand across my belly, the span of his hand
almost reaching from hip to hip.
“Look at you. You are so beautiful,” he murmurs. “See how you feel.” He clasps both
my hands in his, his palms against the backs of my hands, his fingers in between mine so
that my fingers are splayed. He places my hands on my belly. “Feel how soft your skin is.”
His voice is soft and low. He moves my hands in a slow circle then upwards towards my
breasts. “Feel how full your breasts are.” He holds my hands so that they cup my breasts.
He gently strokes my nipples with his thumbs over and over.
I moan between parted lips and arch my back so my breasts fill my palms. He squeezes
my nipples between our thumbs, pulling gently so that they elongate further. I watch in
fascination at the wanton creature writhing in front of me. Oh this feels good. I groan and
close my eyes, no longer wanting to see that libidinous woman in the mirror falling apart
under her own hands... his hands... feeling my skin as he would, experiencing how arous-
ing it is – just his touch, and his calm, soft, commands.
“That’s right, baby,” he murmurs.
He guides my hands down the sides of my body, past my waist to my hips, and across
to my pubic hair. He slides his leg in between mine, pushing my feet further apart, wid-
ening my stance, and runs my hands over my sex, one hand at a time in turn, setting up a
rhythm. It is so erotic. Truly I am a marionette and he is the master puppeteer.
“Look at you glow, Anastasia,” he whispers as he trails kisses and soft bites along my
shoulder. I groan. Suddenly he lets go.
“Carry on,” he orders, and stands back watching me.
I rub myself. No. I want him, him to do it. It doesn’t feel the same. I’m lost without
him. He pulls his shirt over his head and quickly takes off his jeans.
“You’d rather I do this?” His gray gaze scorches mine in the mirror.“Oh yes... please,” I breathe.
He wraps his arms around me again and takes my hands once more, continuing the
sensual caress across my sex, over my clitoris. His chest hair scrapes against me, his erec-
tion presses against me. Oh soon... please. He bites the nape of my neck, and I close my
eyes, enjoying the myriad of sensations; my neck, my groin... the feel of him behind me.
He stops abruptly and spins me around, circling my wrists with one hand, imprisoning my
hands behind me, and pulling at my ponytail with the other. I am flush against him, and he
kisses me wildly, ravaging my mouth with his. Holding, h me in place.
His breathing is ragged, matching mine.
“When did you start your period, Anastasia?” he asks out of the blue, gazing down at
me.
“Err... yesterday,” I mumble in my highly aroused state.
“Good.” He releases me and turns me around.
“Hold on to the sink,” he orders and pulls my hips back again, like he did in the play-
room, so I’m bending down.
He reaches between my legs and pulls on the blue string... what! And... a gently pulls
my tampon out and tosses it into the nearby toilet. Holy fuck. Sweet mother of all... Jeez.
And then he’s inside me... ah! Skin against skin... moving slowly at first... easily, testing
me, pushing me... oh my. I grip on to the sink, panting, forcing myself back on him, feel-
ing him inside me. Oh the sweet agony... his hands clasp my hips. He sets a punishing
rhythm – in, out, and he reaches around and finds my clitoris, massaging me... oh jeez. I
can feel myself quicken.
“That’s right, baby,” he rasps as he grinds into me, angling his hips, and it’s enough to
send me flying, flying high.
Whoa... and I come, loudly, gripping for dear life onto the sink as I spiral down through
my orgasm, everything spinning and clenching at once. He follows, clasping me tightly,
his front on my back as he climaxes and calls my name like it’s a litany or a prayer.
“Oh, Ana!” His breathing is ragged in my ear, in perfect synergy with mine. “Oh,
baby, will I ever get enough of you?” he whispers.
Will it always be like this? So overwhelming, so all-consuming, so bewildering and
beguiling. I wanted to talk, but now I’m spent and dazed from his lovemaking and wonder-
ing if I will ever get enough of him?
We sink slowly to the floor, and he wraps his arms around me, imprisoning me. I am
curled on his lap, my head against his chest, as we both calm. Very subtly, I inhale his
sweet, intoxicating Christian scent. I must not nuzzle. I must not nuzzle. I repeat the mantra
in my head – though I am so tempted to do so. I want to lift my hand and draw patterns
in his chest hair with my fingertips... but I resist, knowing that he’ll hate it if I do. We are
both quiet, lost in our thoughts. I am lost in him... lost to him.
I remember that I have my period.
“I’m bleeding,” I murmur.
“Doesn’t bother me,” he breathes.
“I noticed.” I can’t keep the dryness out of my voice.
He tenses slightly.
“Does it bother you?” he asks softly.Does it bother me? Maybe it should... should it? No, it doesn’t. I lean back and look
up at him, and he gazes down at me, his eyes a soft cloudy gray.
“No, not at all.”
He smirks.
“Good. Let’s have a bath.”
He uncurls from around me, placing me on the floor as he makes to stand. As he does,
I notice again the small, round, white scars on his chest. They are not chicken pox, I muse
absentmindedly. Grace said he was hardly affected. Holy shit... they must be burns.
Burns from what? I blanch at the realization, shock and revulsion coursing through me.
From cigarettes? Mrs. Robinson, his birth mother, who? Who did this to him? Maybe
there’s a reasonable explanation, and I’m over-reacting – wild hope blossoms in my chest
– hope that I am wrong.
“What is it?” Christian’s face is wide-eyed with alarm.
“Your scars,” I whisper. “They’re not from chicken pox.”
I watch as in a split second he closes down, his stance changing from relaxed, calm,
and at ease, to defensive – angry, even. He frowns, his face darkening, and his mouth
presses into a thin, hard line.
“No, they’re not,” he snaps, but he does not elaborate further. He stands, holds his
hand out for me, and hauls me to my feet.
“Don’t look at me like that.” His voice is colder and scolding as he lets go of my hand.
I flush, chastened, and stare down at my fingers, and I know, I know that someone
stubbed cigarettes out on Christian. I feel sick.
“Did she do that?” I whisper before I can stop myself.
He says nothing, so I’m forced to look at him. He’s glaring at me.
“She? Mrs. Robinson? She’s not an animal, Anastasia. Of course she didn’t. I don’t
understand why you feel you have to demonize her.”
He’s standing there, naked, gloriously naked, with my blood on him... and we’re fi-
nally having this conversation. And I’m naked too – neither of us has anywhere to hide,
except perhaps the bath. I take a deep breath, move past him, and step down into the water.
It is deliciously warm, soothing, and deep. I melt into the fragrant foam and stare up at
him, hiding among the bubbles.
“I just wonder what you would be like if you hadn’t met her. If she hadn’t introduced
you to your... um, lifestyle.”
He sighs and steps down into the bath opposite me, his jaw clenched with tension, his
eyes frosty. As he gracefully submerges his body beneath the water, he’s careful not to
touch me. Jeez – have I made him that mad?
He stares impassively at me, his face unreadable, saying nothing. Again the silence
stretches between us, but I hold my counsel. It’s your turn Grey – I am not caving this time.
My subconscious is nervous, anxiously biting her nails – this could go either way. Chris-
tian and I stare at each other, but I am not backing down. Eventually, after what seems like
a millennium, he shakes his head, and he smirks.
“I would probably have gone the way of my birth mother, had it not been for Mrs.
Robinson.”
Oh! I blink at him. Crack addict or whore? Possibly both?“She loved me in a way I found... acceptable,” he adds with a shrug.
What the hell does that mean?
“Acceptable?” I whisper.
“Yes.” He stares intently at me. “She distracted me from the destructive path I found
myself following. It’s very hard to grow up in a perfect family when you’re not perfect.”
Oh no. My mouth dries as I digest his words. He gazes as me, his expression unfath-
omable. He’s not going to tell me any more. How frustrating. Inside, I’m reeling – he
sounds so full of self-loathing. And Mrs. Robinson loved him. Holy shit... does she still?
I feel like I’ve been kicked in the stomach.
“Does she still love you?”
“I don’t think so, not like that.” He frowns as if he hasn’t thought about the idea. “I
keep telling you it was a long time ago. It’s in the past. I couldn’t change it even if I
wanted to, which I don’t. She saved me from myself.” He’s exasperated and runs a wet
hand through his hair. “I’ve never discussed this with anyone.” He pauses, “Except Dr.
Flynn, of course. And the only reason I’m talking about this now, to you, is because I want
you to trust me.”
“I do trust you, but I do want to know you better, and whenever I try to talk to you, you
distract me. There’s so much I want to know.”
“Oh for pity’s sake, Anastasia. What do you want to know? What do I have to do?” His
eyes blaze, and though he doesn’t raise his voice, I know he’s trying to rein in his temper.
I glance quickly down at my hands, clear beneath the water as the bubbles have started
to disperse.
“I’m just trying to understand, you’re such an enigma. Unlike anyone I’ve met before.
I’m glad you’re telling me what I want to know.”
Jeez – maybe it’s the Cosmopolitans making me brave, but suddenly I cannot bear the
distance between us. I move through the water to his side and lean against him so we’re
touching, skin to skin. He tenses and eyes me warily, as if I might bite. Well, that’s a turn-
around. My inner goddess gazes at him in quiet, surprised speculation.
“Please don’t be angry with me,” I whisper.
“I am not angry with you, Anastasia. I’m just not used to this kind of talking – this
probing. I only have this with Dr. Flynn and with–” He stops and frowns.
“With her. Mrs. Robinson. You talk to her?” I prompt, trying to rein in my own temper.
“Yes, I do.”
“What about?”
He shifts in the bath so that he’s facing me, causing the water to lap over the sides onto
the floor. He places his arm around my shoulders, resting on the ledge of the bath.
“Persistent aren’t you?” he murmurs, a trace of irritation in his voice. “Life, the uni-
verse – business. Anastasia, Mrs. R and I go way back. We can discuss anything.”
“Me?” I whisper.
“Yes.” Gray eyes watch me carefully.
I bite my bottom lip, trying to curb the sudden rush of anger that surfaces.
“Why do you talk about me?” I endeavor not to sound whiney and petulant, but I don’t
succeed. I know I should stop. I am pushing him too hard. My subconscious has her Ed-
vard Munch face on again.“I’ve never met anyone like you, Anastasia.”
“What does that mean? Anyone who just didn’t automatically sign your paperwork,
no questions asked?”
He shakes his head.
“I need advice.”
“And you take advice from Mrs. Paedo?” I snap. The hold on my temper is more tenta-
tive than I thought.
“Anastasia – enough,” he snaps back sternly, his eyes narrowing.
I’m skating on thin ice, and I’m heading into danger. “Or I’ll put you across my knee.
I have no sexual or romantic interest in her whatsoever. She’s a dear, valued friend and a
business partner. That’s all. We have a past, a shared history, which was monumentally
beneficial for me, though it fucked up her marriage – but that side of our relationship is
over.”
Jeez – another part I just can’t understand. She was married as well. How did they get
away with it for so long?
“And your parents never found out?”
“No,” he growls. “I’ve told you this.”
And I know that’s it. I cannot ask him any further questions about her because he will
lose it with me.
“Are you done?” he snaps.
“For now.”
He takes a deep breath and visibly relaxes in front of me, like a great weight is lifted
from his shoulders or something.
“Right – my turn,” he mutters, and his glare turns steely, speculative. “You haven’t
responded to my email.”
I flush. Oh, I hate the spotlight on me, and it seems he’s going to get angry every time
we have a discussion. I shake my head. Perhaps that’s how he feels about my questions,
he’s not used to being challenged. The thought is revelatory, distracting, and unnerving.
“I was going to respond. But now you’re here.”
“You’d rather I wasn’t?” he breathes, his expression impassive again.
“No, I’m pleased,” I murmur.
“Good.” He gives me a genuine, relieved smile. “I’m pleased I’m here too – in spite of
your interrogation. So, while it’s acceptable to grill me, you think you can claim some kind
of diplomatic immunity just because I’ve flown all this way to see you? I’m not buying it,
Miss Steele. I want to know how you feel.”
Oh no...
“I told you. I am pleased you’re here. Thank you for coming all this way,” I say feebly.
“It’s my pleasure, Miss Steele.” His eyes shine as he leans down and kisses me gently.
I feel myself responding automatically. The water is still warm, the bathroom still steamy.
He stops and pulls back, gazing down at me.
“No. I think I want some answers first before we do any more.”
More? There’s that word again. And he wants answers... answers to what? I don’t
have a secret past – I don’t have a harrowing childhood. What could he possibly want to
know about me that he doesn’t already know?I sigh, resigned.
“What do you want to know?”
“Well, how you feel about our would-be arrangement, for starters.”
I blink at him. Truth or dare time – my subconscious and inner goddess glance ner-
vously at one another. Hell, let’s go for truth.
“I don’t think I can do it for an extended period of time. A whole weekend being some-
one I’m not.” I flush and stare at my hands.
He tips my chin up, and he’s smirking at me, amused.
“No, I don’t think you could either.”
And part of me feels slightly affronted and challenged.
“Are you laughing at me?”
“Yes, but in a good way,” he says with a small smile.
He leans down and kisses me softly, briefly.
“You’re not a great submissive,” he breathes as he holds my chin, his eyes dancing
with humor.
I stare at him shocked, then I burst out laughing – and he joins me.
“Maybe I don’t have a good teacher.”
He snorts.
“Maybe. Perhaps I should be stricter with you.” He cocks his head to one side and
gives me an artful smile.
I swallow. Jeez, no. But at the same time, my muscles clench deliciously deep inside.
It is his way of showing that he cares. Perhaps the only way he can show he cares – I real-
ize that. He’s staring at me, gauging my reaction.
“Was it that bad when I spanked you the first time?”
I gaze back at him, blinking. Was it that bad? I remember feeling confused by my
reaction. It hurt, but not that much in retrospect. He’s said over and over again it’s more
in my head. And the second time... Well, that was good... hot.
“No, not really,” I whisper.
“It’s more the idea of it?” he prompts.
“I suppose. Feeling pleasure, when one isn’t supposed to.”
“I remember feeling the same. Takes a while to get your head around it.”
Holy hell. This was when he was a kid.
“You can always safe-word, Anastasia. Don’t forget that. And, as long as you follow
the rules, which fulfill a deep need in me for control and to keep you safe, then perhaps we
can find a way forward.”
“Why do you need to control me?”
“Because it satisfies a need in me that wasn’t met in my formative years.”
“So it’s a form of therapy?”
“I’ve not thought of it like that, but yes, I suppose it is.”
This I can understand. This will help.
“But, here’s the thing – one moment you say don’t defy me, the next you say you like
to be challenged. That’s a very fine line to tread successfully.”
He gazes at me for a moment, then frowns.
“I can see that. But you seem to be doing fine so far.”“But at what personal cost? I’m tied up in knots here.”
“I like you tied up in knots,” he smirks.
“That’s not what I meant!” I splash him in exasperation.
He gazes down at me, arching an eyebrow.
“Did you just splash me?”
“Yes.” Holy shit... that look.
“Oh, Miss Steele.” He grabs me and pulls me onto his lap, sloshing water all over the
floor. “I think we’ve done enough talking for now.”
He clasps his hands on either side of my head and kisses me. Deeply. Possessing
my mouth. Angling my head... controlling me. I moan against his lips. This is what he
likes. This is what he’s so good at. Everything ignites inside me and my fingers are in his
hair, holding him to me, and I’m kissing him back and saying I want you too the only way
I know how. He groans, shifting me so I’m astride him, kneeling over him, his erection
beneath me. He pulls back and looks at me, his eyes hooded, glowing and lustful. I drop
my hands to grab on to the edge of the bath but he grips both my wrists and pulls my hands
behind my back, holding them together in one hand.
“I’m going to have you now,” he whispers and lifts me so that I’m hovering over him.
“Ready?” he breathes.
“Yes,” I whisper, and he eases me on to him, slowly, exquisitely slowly... filling me...
watching me as he takes me.
I groan, closing my eyes, and I revel in the sensation, the stretching fullness. He flexes
his hips, and I gasp, leaning forward, resting my forehead against his.
“Please let my hands go,” I whisper.
“Don’t touch me,” he pleads, and releasing my wrists, he grabs my hips.
Clasping the bath ledge, I move up and then down slowly, opening my eyes to gaze at
him. He’s watching me. His mouth open slightly, his breathing halted, stilted – his tongue
between his teeth. He looks so... hot. We’re wet and slippery and moving against each
other. I lean down and kiss him. He closes his eyes. Tentatively, I bring my hands up to
his head and run my fingers through his hair, not taking my lips from his mouth. This is
allowed. He likes this. I like this. And we move together. I tug his hair, tipping his head
back and deepen the kiss, riding him – faster, picking up the rhythm. I moan against his
mouth. He starts to lift me faster, faster... holding my hips. Kissing me back. We are wet
mouths and tongues, tangled hair, and moving hips. All sensation... all consuming again.
I am close... I am starting to recognize this delicious tightening... quickening. And the
water... it’s swirling around us, our own whirlpool, a stirring vortex as our movements
become more frantic... sloshing everywhere, mirroring what’s happening inside me... and
I just don’t care.
I love this man. I love his passion, the effect I have on him. I love that he’s flown so
far to see me. I love that he cares about me... he cares. It’s so unexpected, so fulfilling.
He is mine, and I am his.
“That’s right, baby,” he breathes.
And I come, my orgasm ripping through me, a turbulent, passionate, apogee that de-
vours me whole. And suddenly Christian crushes me to him... his arms wrapped around
my back as he finds his release.“Ana, baby!” he cries, and it’s a wild invocation, stirring and touching the depths of
my soul.
We lie staring at each other, gray eyes into blue, face to face, in the super king bed, both
hugging our pillows on our fronts. Naked. Not touching. Just looking and admiring, cov-
ered by the sheet.
“Do you want to sleep?” Christian asks, his voice soft. He is beautiful; the mix of col-
ors in his hair vivid against the white Egyptian cotton pillowcase, gray eyes, smoldering,
expressive. He looks concerned.
“No. I’m not tired.” I feel strangely energized. It’s been so good to talk – I don’t want
to stop.
“What do you want to do?” he asks.
“Talk.”
He smiles.
“About what?”
“Stuff.”
“What stuff?”
“You.”
“What about me?”
“What’s your favorite film?”
He grins.
“Today, it’s ‘The Piano’.”
His grin is infectious.
“Of course. Silly me. Such a sad, exciting score, which no doubt you can play? So
many accomplishments, Mr. Grey.”
“And the greatest one is you, Miss Steele.”
“So I am number seventeen.”
He frowns at me not comprehending.
“Seventeen?”
“Number of women you’ve um... had sex with.”
His lips quirk up, his eyes shining with incredulity.
“Not exactly.”
“You said fifteen,” My confusion is obvious.
“I was referring to the number of women in my playroom. I thought that’s what you
meant. You didn’t ask me how many women I’d had sex with.”
“Oh.” Holy shit... there’s more... How? I gape at him. “Vanilla?”
“No. You are my one vanilla conquest,” he shakes his head, still grinning at me.
Why does he find this funny? And why am I grinning back at him like an idiot?
“I can’t give you a number. I didn’t put notches in the bedpost or anything.”
“What are we talking – tens, hundreds... thousands?” My eyes grow wilder as the
numbers get larger.
“Tens. We’re in the tens, for pity’s sake.”“All submissives?”
“Yes.”
“Stop grinning at me,” I scold him mildly, trying and failing to keep a straight face.
“I can’t. You’re funny.”
“Funny peculiar or funny ha ha?”
“A bit of both I think.” His words mirror mine.
“That’s a damned cheek, coming from you.”
He leans across and kisses the tip of my nose.
“This will shock you, Anastasia. Ready?”
I nod, wide-eyed, still with the stupid grin on my face.
“All submissives in training, when I was training. There are places in and around Se-
attle that one can go and practice. Learn to do what I do,” he says.
What?
“Oh.” I blink at him.
“Yep, I’ve paid for sex, Anastasia.”
“That’s nothing to be proud of,” I mutter haughtily. “And you’re right... I am deeply
shocked. And cross that I can’t shock you.”
“You wore my underwear.”
“Did that shock you?”
“Yes.” My inner goddess pole-vaults over the fifteen-foot bar.
“You didn’t wear your panties to meet my parents.”
“Did that shock you?”
“Yes.”
Jeez, the bar’s moved to sixteen feet.
“It seems I can only shock you in the underwear department.”
“You told me you were a virgin. That’s the biggest shock I’ve ever had.”
“Yes, your face was a picture, a Kodak moment.” I giggle.
“You let me work you over with a riding crop.”
“Did that shock you?”
“Yep.”
I grin.
“Well, I may let you do it again.”
“Oh, I do hope so, Miss Steele. This weekend?”
“Okay,” I agree, shyly.
“Okay?”
“Yes. I’ll go to the Red Room of Pain again.”
“You say my name.”
“That shocks you?”
“The fact that I like it shocks me.”
“Christian.”
He grins.
“I want to do something tomorrow.” His eyes glow with excitement.
“What?”
“A surprise. For you.” His voice is low and soft.I raise an eyebrow and stifle a yawn at the same time.
“Am I boring you, Miss Steele?” His tone is sardonic.
“Never.”
He leans across and kisses me gently on my lips.
“Sleep,” he commands, then switches off the light.
And in this quiet moment, as I close my eyes, spent and sated, I think I’m in the eye of
the storm. And in spite of all he’s said, and what he hasn’t said, I don’t think I have ever
been so happy.Christian stands in a steel-barred cage. Wearing his soft, ripped jeans, his chest and feet
are mouthwateringly naked, and he’s staring at me. His private-joke smile etched on his
beautiful face and his eyes a molten gray. In his hands he holds a bowl of strawberries.
He ambles with athletic grace to the front of the cage, gazing intently at me. Holding up a
plump ripe strawberry, he extends his hand through the bars.
“Eat,” he says, his tongue caressing the front of his palate as he enunciates the ‘t’.
I try and move toward him, but I’m tethered, held back by some unseen force around
my wrist, holding me. Let me go.
“Come, eat,” he says, smiling his delicious crooked smile.
I pull and pull... let me go! I want to scream and shout, but no sound emerges. I am
mute. He stretches a little further, and the strawberry is at my lips.
“Eat, Anastasia.” His mouth forms my name, lingering sensually on each syllable.
I open my mouth and bite, the cage disappears, and my hands are free. I reach up to
touch him, graze my fingers through his chest hair.
“Anastasia.”
No. I moan.
“Come on, baby.”
No. I want to touch you.
“Wake up.”No. Please. My eyes flicker unwillingly open for a split second. I’m in bed and some-
one is nuzzling my ear.
“Wake up, baby,” he whispers, and the effect of his sweet voice spreads like warm
melted caramel through my veins.
It’s Christian. Jeez, it’s still dark, and the images of him from my dream persists, dis-
concerting and tantalizing in my head.
“Oh... no,” I groan. I want back at his chest, back to my dream. Why is he waking me?
It’s the middle of the night, or so it feels. Holy shit. Does he want sex – now?
“Time to get up, baby. I’m going to switch on the sidelight.” His voice is quiet.
“No,” I groan.
“I want to chase the dawn with you,” he says, kissing my face, my eyelids, the tip of
my nose, my mouth, and I open my eyes. The sidelight is on. “Good morning, beautiful,”
he murmurs.
I groan, and he smiles.
“You are not a morning person,” he murmurs.
Through the haze of light, I squint and see Christian leaning over me, smiling. Amused.
Amused at me. Dressed! In black.
“I thought you wanted sex,” I grumble.
“Anastasia, I always want sex with you. It’s heartwarming to know that you feel the
same,” he says dryly.
I gaze at him as my eyes adjust to the light, but he still looks amused... thank heavens.
“Of course I do, just not when it’s so late.”
“It’s not late, it’s early. Come on – up you go. We’re going out. I’ll take a rain check
on the sex.”
“I was having such a nice dream,” I whine.
“Dream about what?” he asks patiently.
“You.” I blush.
“What was I doing this time?”
“Trying to feed me strawberries.”
His lips twitch with a trace of a smile.
“Dr. Flynn could have a field day with that. Up – get dressed. Don’t bother to shower,
we can do that later.”
We!
I sit up, and the sheet pools at my waist, revealing my body. He stands to give me
room, his eyes dark.
“What time is it?”
“5:30 in the morning.”
“Feels like 3:00 a.m.”
“We don’t have much time. I let you sleep as long as possible. Come.”
“Can’t I have a shower?”
He sighs.
“If you have a shower, I’ll want one with you, and you and I know what will happen
then – the day will just go. Come.”He’s excited. Like a small boy, he’s iridescent with anticipation and excitement. It
makes me smile.
“What are we doing?’
“It’s a surprise. I told you.”
I can’t help but grin up at him.
“Okay.” I clamber off the bed and search for my clothes. Of course they are neatly
folded on the chair beside my bed. He’s laid out a pair of his jersey boxer briefs too, Ralph
Lauren, no less. I slip them on, and he grins at me. Hmm, another piece of Christian
Grey’s underwear – a trophy to add to my collection – along with the car, the BlackBerry,
the Mac, his black jacket, and a set of old valuable first editions. I shake my head at his lar-
gesse, and I frown as a scene from Tess crosses my mind: the strawberry scene. It evokes
my dream. To hell with Dr. Flynn – Freud would have a field day – and then he’d probably
expire trying to deal with Fifty Shades.
“I’ll give you some room now that you’re up.” Christian exits toward the living area,
and I wander into the bathroom. I have needs to attend to, and I want a quick wash. Seven
minutes later, I am in the living area, scrubbed, brushed and dressed in jeans, my camisole,
and Christian Grey’s underwear. Christian glances up from the small dining table where
he’s eating breakfast. Breakfast! Jeez, at this time.
“Eat,” he says.
Holy Moses... my dream. I gape at him, thinking about his tongue on his palate. Hmm,
his expert tongue.
“Anastasia,” he says sternly, pulling me out of my reverie.
It really is too early for me. How to handle this?
“I’ll have some tea. Can I take a croissant for later?”
He eyes me suspiciously, and I smile very sweetly.
“Don’t rain on my parade, Anastasia,” he warns softly.
“I will eat later when my stomach’s woken up. About 7:30 a.m.... okay?”
“Okay.” He peers down at me.
Honestly. I have to concentrate hard on not making a face at him.
“I want to roll my eyes at you.”
“By all means, do, and you will make my day,” he says sternly.
I gaze up at the ceiling.
“Well a spanking would wake me up, I suppose.” I purse my lips in quiet contempla-
tion.
Christian’s mouth drops open.
“On the other hand, I don’t want you to be all hot and bothered, the climate here is
warm enough.” I shrug nonchalantly.
Christian closes his mouth and tries very hard to look displeased, but fails hopelessly.
I can see the humor lurking in the back of his eyes.
“You are, as ever, challenging, Miss Steele. Drink your tea.”
I notice the Twinings label, and inside, my heart sings. See, he does care, my subcon-
scious mouths at me. I sit and face him, drinking in his beauty. Will I ever get enough of
this man?As we leave the room, Christian throws a sweatshirt at me.
“You’ll need this.”
I look at him, puzzled.
“Trust me.” He grins, leans over and kisses me quickly on the lips, then grabs my hand
and we head out.
Outside, in the relative cool of the half-light of pre-dawn, the valet hands Christian a
set of keys to a flash sports car with a soft top. I raise an eyebrow at Christian, who smirks
back at me.
“You know, sometimes it’s great being me,” he says with a conspiratorial but smug grin
that I simply can’t help emulating. He’s so lovable when he’s playful and carefree. He
opens my car door with an exaggerated bow, and in I climb. He is in such a good mood.
“Where are we going?”
“You’ll see.” He grins as he slips the car into drive, and we head out on Savannah
Parkway. He programs the GPS and presses a switch on the steering wheel and a classical
orchestral piece fills the car.
“What’s this?” I ask as the sweet, sweet sound of a hundred violin strings assails us.
“It’s from La Traviata. An opera by Verdi.”
Oh, my... it’s lovely.
“La Traviata? I’ve headr of that. I can’t think where. What does it mean?”
Christian glances at me and smirks.
“Well, literally, the woman led astray. It’s based on Alexander Dumas’s book, La
Dame aux Camelias.”
“Ah. I’ve read it.”
“I thought you might.”
“The doomed courtesan.” I squirm uncomfortably in the plush leather seat. Is he try-
ing to tell me something? “Hmm, it’s a depressing story,” I mutter.
“Too depressing? Do you want to choose some music? This is on my iPod.” Christian
has that secret smile again.
I can’t see his iPod anywhere. He taps the screen on the console between us, and be-
hold - there is a play list.
“You choose.” His lips twitch up into a smile, and I know it’s a challenge.
Christian Grey’s iPod, this should be interesting. I scroll through the touch screen,
and find the perfect song. I press play. I wouldn’t have figured him for a Britney fan. The
club-mix, techno beat assaults us both, and Christian turns the volume down. Maybe it’s
too early for this: Britney’s at her most sultry.
“Toxic, eh?” Christian grins.
“I don’t know what you mean.” I feign innocence.
He turns the music down a little more, and inside I am hugging myself. My inner
goddess is standing on the podium awaiting her gold medal. He turned the music down.
Victory!
“I didn’t put that song on my iPod,” he says casually, and puts his foot down so that I
am thrown back into my seat as the car accelerates along the freeway.
What? He knows what he’s doing, the bastard. Who did? And I have to listen to Brit-
ney going on and on. Who... who?The song ends and the iPod shuffles to Damien Rice being mournful. Who? Who? I
stare out of the window, my stomach churning. Who?
“It was Leila,” he answers my unspoken thoughts. How does he do that?
“Leila?”
“An ex, who put the song on my iPod.”
Damien warbles away in the background as I sit stunned. An ex... ex-submissive? An
ex–
“One of the fifteen?” I ask.
“Yes.”
“What happened to her?”
“We finished.”
“Why?”
Oh jeez. It’s too early for this kind of conversation. But he looks relaxed, happy even,
and what’s more, talkative.
“She wanted more.” His voice is low, introspective even, and he leaves the sentence
hanging between us, ending it with that powerful little word again.
“And you didn’t?” I ask before I can employ my brain to mouth filter. Shit, do I want
to know?
He shakes his head.
“I’ve never wanted more, until I met you.”
I gasp, reeling. Oh my. Isn’t this what I want? He wants more. He wants it, too! My
inner goddess has back flipped off the podium and is doing cartwheels around the stadium.
It’s not just me.
“What happened to the other fourteen?” I ask.
Jeez he’s talking – take advantage.
“You want a list? Divorced, beheaded, died?”
“You’re not Henry VIII.”
“Okay. In no particular order, I’ve only had long term relationships with four women,
apart from Elena.”
“Elena?”
“Mrs. Robinson to you.” He half smiles his secret private joke smile.
Elena! Holy Fuck. The evil one has a name and its all-foreign sounding. A vision of a
glorious, pale-skinned vamp with raven hair and ruby-red lips comes to mind, and I know
that she’s beautiful. I must not dwell. I must not dwell.
“What happened to the four?” I ask to distract myself.
“So inquisitive, so eager for information, Miss Steele,” he scolds playfully.
“Oh, Mr. When Is Your Period Due?”
“Anastasia – a man needs to know these things.”
“Does he?”
“I do.”
“Why?”
“Because I don’t want you to get pregnant.”
“Neither do I! Well, not for a few years yet.”Christian blinks startled, then visibly relaxes. Okay. Christian doesn’t want children.
Now or never? I am reeling from his sudden, unprecedented attack of candor. Perhaps
it’s the early morning? Something in the Georgia water? The Georgia air? What else do
I want to know? Carpe Diem.
“So the other four, what happened?” I ask.
“One met someone else. The other three wanted – more. I wasn’t in the market for
more then.”
“And the others?” I press.
He glances at me briefly and just shakes his head.
“Just didn’t work out.”
Whoa, a bucket-load of information to process. I glance in the side mirror of the car,
and I notice the soft swell of pink and aquamarine in the sky behind. Dawn is following us.
“Where are we headed?” I ask, perplexed, gazing out at the I-95. We’re heading south,
that’s all I know.
“An airfield.”
“We’re not going back to Seattle are we?” I gasp, alarmed. I haven’t said goodbye to
my mom. Jeez, she’s expecting us for dinner.
He laughs.
“No, Anastasia, we’re going to indulge in my second favorite pastime.”
“Second?” I frown at him.
“Yep. I told you my favorite this morning.”
I glance at his glorious profile, frowning, racking my brain.
“Indulging in you, Miss Steele, that’s got to be top of my list. Any way I can get you.”
Oh,
“Well that’s quite high up on my list of diverting, kinky priorities too.” I mutter, blush-
ing.
“I’m pleased to hear it,” he mutters dryly.
“So, airfield?”
He grins at me.
“Soaring.”
The term rings a vague bell. He’s mentioned it before.
“We’re going to chase the dawn, Anastasia.” He turns and grins at me as the GPS urges
him to turn right into what looks like an industrial complex. He pulls up outside a large
white building with a sign reading Brunswick Soaring Association.
Gliding! We’re going gliding?
He switches off the engine.
“You up for this?” he asks.
“You’re flying?”
“Yes.”
“Yes, please!” I don’t hesitate. He grins and leans forward and kisses me.
“Another first, Miss Steele,” he says as he climbs out of the car.
First? What sort of first? First time flying a glider... shit! No – he said that he’s done
it before. I relax. He walks round and opens my door. The sky has turned to a subtle opal,
shimmering and glowing softly behind the sporadic childlike clouds. Dawn is upon us.Taking my hand, Christian leads me round the building to a large stretch of tarmac
where several planes are parked. Waiting beside them is a man with a shaved head and a
wild look in his eye, accompanied by Taylor.
Taylor! Does Christian go any where without that man? I beam at him, and he smiles
kindly back at me.
“Mr. Grey, this is your tow-pilot, Mr. Mark Benson,” says Taylor. Christian and Ben-
son shake hands and strike up a conversation, which sounds very technical about wind
speed, directions, and the like.
“Hello, Taylor,” I murmur shyly.
“Miss Steele.” He nods a greeting at me, and I frown. “Ana,” he corrects himself.
“He’s been hell on wheels the last few days. Glad we’re here,” he says conspiratorially.
Oh, this is news – Why? Surely not because of me! Revelation Thursday! Must be
something in the Savannah water that makes these men loosen up a bit.
“Anastasia,” Christian summons me. “Come.” He holds out his hand.
“See you later.” I smile at Taylor, and giving me a quick salute, he heads back to the
parking lot.
“Mr. Benson, this is my girlfriend Anastasia Steele.”
“Pleased to meet you,” I murmur as we shake hands.
Benson gives me a dazzling smile.
“Likewise,” he says, and I can tell from his accent that he’s British.
As I take Christian’s hand, there’s a mounting excitement in my belly. Wow... glid-
ing! We follow Mark Benson out across the tarmac towards the runway. He and Christian
keep up a running conversation. I catch the gist. We will be in a Blanik L-23, which is
apparently better than the L-13, although this is open to debate. Benson will be flying a
Piper Pawnee. He’s been flying tail draggers for about five years now. It all means nothing
to me, but glancing up at Christian, he is so animated, so in his element, it’s a pleasure to
watch him.
The plane itself is long, sleek, and white with orange stripes. It has a small cockpit
with two seats one in front of the other. It’s attached by a long white cable to a small, con-
ventional single-propeller plane. Benson opens the large, clear Perspex dome that frames
the cockpit, allowing us to climb in.
“First we need to strap on your parachute.”
Parachute!
“I’ll do that,” Christian interrupts him and takes the harness off Benson, who smiles
amenably at him.
“I’ll fetch some ballast,” Benson says and heads toward the plane.
“You like strapping me into things.” I observe dryly.
“Miss Steele, you have no idea. Here, step into the straps.”
I do as I’m told, placing my arm on his shoulder. Christian stiffens slightly but doesn’t
move. Once my feet are in the loops, he pulls the parachute up, and I place my arms
through the shoulder straps. Deftly he fastens the harness and tightens all the straps.
“There, you’ll do,” he says mildly, but his eyes are gleaming. “Do you have your hair
tie from yesterday?”
I nod.“You want me to put my hair up?”
“Yes.”
I quickly do as I’m asked.
“In you go,” Christian commands. He’s still so bossy. I go to climb into the back.
“No, front. Pilot sits at the back.”
“But won’t you be able to see.”
“I’ll see plenty.” He grins.
I don’t think I have ever seen him so happy, bossy, but happy. I clamber in, settling
down into the leather seat. It is surprisingly comfortable. Christian leans over, pulls the
harness over my shoulders, reaches between my legs for the lower belt, and slots it into the
fastener that rests against my belly. He tightens all the restraining straps.
“Hmm, twice in one morning, I am a lucky man,” he whispers and kisses me quickly.
“This won’t take long – twenty, thirty minutes at most. Thermals aren’t great this time of
the morning, but it’s so breathtaking up there at this hour. I hope you’re not nervous.”
“Excited.” I beam.
Where did this ridiculous grin come from? Actually, part of me is terrified. My inner
goddess – she’s under a blanket behind the sofa.
“Good.” He grins back, stroking my face, then disappears from view.
I hear and feel his movements as he climbs in behind me. Of course he’s strapped me
in so tightly I can’t move round to see him... typical! We are very low on the ground. In
front of me is a panel of dials and levers and a big stick thing. I leave well alone.
Mark Benson appears with a cheerful grin as he checks my straps and leans in and
checks the cockpit floor. I think it’s the ballast.
“Yep, that’s secure. First time?” he asks me.
“Yes.”
“You’ll love it.”
“Thanks, Mr. Benson.”
“Call me Mark.” He turns to Christian. “Okay?”
“Yep. Let’s go.”
I am so glad I haven’t eaten anything. I am beyond excited, and I don’t think my stom-
ach would be game for food, excitement, and leaving the ground. Once again, I am putting
myself into this beautiful man’s skilled hands. Mark shuts the cockpit lid, strolls over to
the plane in front, and climbs in.
The Piper’s single propeller starts, and my nervous stomach relocates itself to my
throat. Jeez... I’m really doing this. Mark taxis slowly down the runway, and as the cable
takes the strain, we suddenly jolt forward. We’re off. I hear chatter over the radio set
behind me. I think it’s Mark talking to the tower – but I can’t make out what he’s saying.
As the Piper picks up speed, so do we. It’s very bumpy, and in front of us, the single prop
plane is still on the ground. Jeez, will we ever get up? And suddenly, my stomach disap-
pears from my throat and free-falls through my body to the ground – we’re airborne.
“Here we go, baby!” Christian shouts from behind me. And we are in our own bubble,
just us two. All I hear is the sound of the wind ripping past and the distant hum of the
Piper’s engine.I’m gripping the edge of my seat with both hands, so tightly my knuckles are white.
We head west, inland away from the rising sun, gaining height, crossing over fields and
woods and homes and I-95. Oh my. This is amazing, above us only sky. The light is
extraordinary, diffuse and warm in hue, and I remember José rambling on about ‘magic
hour’, a time of day that photographers adore – this is it... just after dawn, and I’m in it,
with Christian.
Abruptly, I’m reminded of José’s show. Hmm. I need to tell Christian. I wonder
briefly how he’ll react. But I won’t worry about that, not now – I’m enjoying the ride. My
ears pop as we gain height, and the ground slips further and further away. It is so peaceful.
I completely get why he likes to be up here. Away from his BlackBerry and all the pres-
sures of his job.
The radio crackles into life, and Mark mentions 3,000 feet. Jeez, that sounds high,. I
check the ground, and I can no longer clearly distinguish anything down there.
“Release,” Christian says into the radio, and suddenly the Piper disappears, and the
pulling sensation provided by the small plane ceases. We’re floating, floating over Georgia.
Holy fuck – it’s exciting. The plane banks and turns as the wing dips, and we spiral
toward the sun. Icarus. This is it. I am flying close to the sun, but he’s with me, leading
me. I gasp at the realization. We spiral and spiral and, the view in this morning light is
spectacular.
“Hold on tight!” he shouts, and we dip again – only this time he doesn’t stop. suddenly,
I am upside down, looking at the ground through the top of the cockpit canopy.
I squeal loudly, my arms automatically lashing out, my hands splayed on the Perspex
to stop me falling. I can hear him laughing. Bastard! But his joy is infectious, and I am
laughing too as he rights the plane.
“I’m glad I didn’t have breakfast!” I shout at him.
“Yes, in hindsight, it’s good you didn’t, because I’m going to do that again.”
He dips the plane once more until we are upside down. This time, because I’m pre-
pared, I hang on to the harness, but it makes me grin and giggle like a fool. He levels the
plane once more.
“Beautiful, isn’t it?” he calls.
“Yes.”
We fly, swooping majestically through the air, listening to the wind and the silence, in
the early morning light. Who could ask for more?
“See the joy-stick in front of you?” he shouts again.
I look at the stick that is moving slightly between my legs. Oh no, where’s he going
with this?
“Grab hold.”
Oh shit. He’s going to make me fly the plane. No!
“Go on, Anastasia. Grab it,” he urges more vehemently.
Tentatively, I grasp it and feel the pitch and yaw of what I assume are rudders and
paddles or whatever keeps this thing in the air.
“Hold tight... keep it steady. See the middle dial in front? Keep the needle dead cen-
ter.”
My heart is in my mouth. Holy shit. I am flying a glider... I’m soaring.“Good girl.” Christian sounds delighted.
“I am amazed you let me take control,” I shout.
“You’d be amazed what I’d let you do, Miss Steele. Back to me now.”
I feel the joystick move suddenly, and I let go as we spiral down several feet, my ears
starting to pop again. The ground is getting closer, and it feels like we could be hitting it
shortly. Jeez, that’s scary.
“BMA, this is BG N Papa 3 Alpha, entering left downwind runway seven to the grass,
BMA.” Christian sounds his usual authoritative self. The tower squawks back at him over
the radio, but I don’t understand what they say. We sail round again in a wide circle, sink-
ing slowly to the ground. I can see the airport, the landing strips, and we’re flying back
over I-95.
“Hang on, baby. This can get bumpy.”
After another circle we dip, and suddenly we are on the ground with a brief thump,
racing along the grass – holy shit. My teeth chatter as we bump at an alarming speed along
the ground, until we finally come to a stop. The plane sways slightly then dips to the right.
I take a deep lungful of air while Christian leans over and opens the cockpit lid, clambering
out and stretching.
“How was that?” he asks, and his eyes are a shining, dazzling silver gray. He leans
down to unbuckle me.
“That was extraordinary. Thank you,” I whisper.
“Was it more?” he asks, his voice tinged with hope.
“Much more,” I breathe, and he grins.
“Come.” He holds out his hand for me, and I clamber out of the cockpit.
As soon as I’m out, he grabs me and holds me flush against his body. Suddenly his
hand is in my hair, tugging it so my head tips back, and his other hand travels down to the
base of my spine. He kisses me, long, hard, and passionately, his tongue in my mouth.
His breathing is mounting, his ardor... Holy cow – his erection... we’re in a field. But I
don’t care. My hands twist in his hair, anchoring him to me. I want him, here, now, on
the ground. He breaks away and gazes down at me, his eyes now dark and luminous in
the early morning light, full of raw, arrogant sensuality. Wow. He takes my breath away.
“Breakfast,” he whispers, making it sound deliciously erotic.
How can he make bacon and eggs sound like forbidden fruit? It’s an extraordinary
skill. He turns, clasping my hand, and we head back toward the car.
“What about the glider?”
“Someone will take care of that?”, he says dismissively. “We’ll eat now.” His tone is
unequivocal.
Food! He’s talking food, when really all I want is him.
“Come.” He smiles.
I have never seen him like this, and it’s a joy to behold. I find myself walking beside
him, hand in hand, with a stupid, goofy grin plastered on my face. It reminds me of when I
was ten and spending the day in Disneyland with Ray. It was a perfect day, and this is sure
shaping out to be the same.Back in the car, as we head back along I-95 towards Savannah, my phone alarm goes
off. Oh yes... my pill.
“What’s that?” Christian asks, curious, glancing at me.
I fumble in my purse for the packet.
“Alarm for my pill,” I mutter as my cheeks flush.
His lips quirk up.
“Good, well done. I hate condoms.”
I flush some more. He’s as patronizing as ever.
“I like that you introduced me to Mark as your girlfriend,” I murmur.
“Isn’t that what you are?” He raises an eyebrow.
“Am I? I thought you wanted a submissive.”
“So did I, Anastasia, and I do. But I’ve told you, I want more, too.”
Oh my. He’s coming round, and hope surges through me, leaving me breathless.
“I’m very happy that you want more,” I whisper.
“We aim to please, Miss Steele.” He smirks as we pull into the International House of
Pancakes.
“IHOP.” I grin back at him. I don’t believe it. Who would have thought... Christian
Grey at IHOP.
It’s 8:30 a.m. but quiet in the restaurant. It smells of sweet batter, fried food, and disinfec-
tant. Hmm... not such an enticing aroma. Christian leads me to a booth.
“I would never have pictured you here,” I say as we slide into a booth.
“My dad used to bring us to one of these whenever my mom went away at a medical
conference. It was our secret.” He smiles at me, gray eyes dancing, then picks up a menu,
running a hand through his wayward hair as he stares down at it.
Oh, I want to run my hands through that hair. I pick up a menu and examine it. I real-
ize I’m starving.
“I know what I want,” he breathes, his voice low and husky.
I glance up at him, and he’s staring at me in that way that tightens all the muscles in my
belly and takes my breath away, his eyes dark and smoldering. Holy shit. I gaze at him,
my blood singing in my veins answering his call.
“I want what you want,” I whisper.
He inhales sharply.
“Here?” he asks suggestively, raising an eyebrow at me, smiling wickedly, his teeth
trapping the tip of his tongue.
Oh my... sex in IHOP. His expression changes, growing darker.
“Don’t bite your lip,” he orders. “Not here, not now.” His eyes harden momentarily,
and for a moment, he looks so deliciously dangerous. “If I can’t have you here, don’t tempt
me.”
“Hi, My name’s Leandra, What can I get for you... er... folks... er... today, this
mornin... ?” Her voice trails off, stumbling over her words as she gets an eye full of Mr.
Beautiful opposite me. She flushes scarlet, and a small ounce of sympathy for her bubblesunwelcome into my consciousness because he still does that to me. Her presence allows
me to escape briefly from his sensual glare.
“Anastasia?” he prompts me, ignoring her, and I don’t think anyone could squeeze as
much carnality into my name as he does at that moment.
I swallow, praying that I don’t go the same color as poor Leandra.
“I told you, I want what you want.” I keep my voice soft, low, and he looks at me hun-
grily. Jeez, my inner goddess swoons. Am I up to this game?
Leandra looks from me to him and back again. She’s practically the same color as her
shiny red hair.
“Shall I give you folks another minute to decide?”
“No. We know what we want.” Christian’s mouth twitches with a small, sexy smile.
“We’ll have two portions of the original buttermilk pancakes with maple syrup and
bacon on the side, two glasses of orange juice, one black coffee with skim milk, and one
English breakfast tea, if you have it,” says Christian, not taking his eyes off me.
“Thank you sir. Will that be all?” Leandra whispers, looking anywhere but at the two
of us. We both turn to stare at her, and she flushes crimson again and scuttles away.
“You know it’s really not fair.” I glance down at the Formica tabletop, tracing a pattern
in it with my index finger, trying to sound nonchalant.
“What’s not fair?”
“How you disarm people. Women. Me.”
“Do I disarm you?”
I snort.
“All the time.”
“It’s just looks, Anastasia,” he says mildly.
“No, Christian, it’s much more than that.”
His brow creases.
“You disarm me totally, Miss Steele. Your innocence. It cuts through all the crap.”
“Is that why you’ve changed your mind?”
“Changed my mind?”
“Yes – about ... err... us?”
He strokes his chin thoughtfully with his long, skilled fingers.
“I don’t think I’ve changed my mind per se. We just need to re-define our parameters,
re-draw our battle lines, if you will. We can make this work, I’m sure. I want you submis-
sive in my playroom. I will punish you if you digress from the rules. Other than that...
well, I think it’s all up for discussion. Those are my requirements, Miss Steele. What say
you to that?”
“So I get to sleep with you? In your bed?”
“Is that what you want?”
“Yes.”
“I agree then. Besides, I sleep very well when you’re in my bed. I had no idea.” His
brow creases as his voice fades.
“I was frightened you’d leave me if I didn’t agree to all of it,” I whisper.“I’m not going anywhere, Anastasia. Besides... ” He trails off, and after some thought,
he adds. “We’re following your advice, your definition: compromise. You emailed it to
me. And so far, it’s working for me.”
“I love that you want more,” I murmur shyly.
“I know.”
“How do you know?”
“Trust me. I just do.” He smirks at me. He’s hiding something. What?
At that moment, Leandra arrives with breakfast and our conversation ceases. My
stomach rumbles, reminding me how ravenous I am. Christian watches with annoying ap-
proval as I devour everything on my plate.
“Can I treat you?” I ask Christian.
“Treat me how?”
“Pay for this meal.”
Christian snorts.
“I don’t think so.” he scoffs.
“Please. I want to.”
He frowns at me.
“Are you trying to completely emasculate me?”
“This is probably the only place that I’ll be able to afford to pay.”
“Anastasia, I appreciate the thought. I do. But no.”
I purse my lips.
“Don’t scowl,” he threatens, his eyes glinting ominously.
Of course he doesn’t ask me for my mother’s address. He knows it already, stalker that he
is. When he pulls up outside the house, I don’t comment. What’s the point?
“Do you want to come in?” I ask shyly.
“I need to work, Anastasia, but I’ll be back this evening. What time?”
I ignore the unwelcome stab of disappointment. Why do I want to spend every single
minute with this controlling sex god? Oh yes, I’ve fallen in love with him, and he can fly.
“Thank you... for the more.”
“My pleasure, Anastasia.” He kisses me, and I inhale his sexy Christian smell.
“I’ll see you later.”
“Try and stop me,” he whispers.
I wave goodbye as he drives off into the Georgia sunshine. I’m still wearing his sweat-
shirt and his underwear, and I’m too warm.
In the kitchen, my mom is in a complete flap. It’s not every day she has to entertain a
multi-zillionaire, and it’s stressing her out.
“How are you, darling?” she asks, and I flush because she must know what I was doing
last night.
“I’m good. Christian took me gliding this morning.” I hope the new information will
distract her.
“Gliding? As in a small plane with no engine? That sort of gliding?”I nod.
“Wow.”
She’s speechless – a novel concept for my mother. She gapes at me, but eventually
recovers herself and resumes her original line of questioning.
“How was last night? Did you talk?”
Jeez. I flush bright scarlet.
“We talked – last night and today. It’s getting better.”
“Good.” She turns her attention back to the four cookery books she has open on the
kitchen table.
“Mom... if you like, I’ll cook this evening.”
“Oh, honey, that’s kind of you, but I want to do it.”
“Okay.” I grimace, knowing full well that my mother’s cooking is pretty hit or miss.
Perhaps she’s improved since she moved to Savannah with Bob. There was a time I
wouldn’t subject anyone to her cooking... even – who do I hate? Oh yes – Mrs. Robinson
– Elena. Well, maybe her. Will I ever meet this damned woman?
I decide to send a quick thank-you to Christian.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Soaring as opposed to sore-ing
Date: June 2 2011 10:20 EST
To: Christian Grey
Sometimes, you really know how to show a girl a good time.
Thank you
Ana x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Soaring vs sore-ing
Date: June 2 2011 10:24 EST
To: Anastasia Steele
I’ll take either of those over your snoring. I had a good time too.
But I always do when I’m with you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: SNORING
Date: June 2 2011 10:26 EST
To: Christian Grey
I DO NOT SNORE. And if I do, it’s very ungallant of you to point it out.
You are no gentleman Mr. Grey! And you are in the Deep South too!
AnaFrom: Christian Grey
Subject: Somniloquy
Date: June 2 2011 10:28 EST
To: Anastasia Steele
I have never claimed to be a gentleman, Anastasia, and I think I have demonstrated that
point to you on numerous occasions. I am not intimidated by your SHOUTY capitals. But
I will confess to a small white lie: No – you don’t snore, but you do talk. And it’s
fascinating.
What happened to my kiss?
Christian Grey
Cad & CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Holy shit. I know I talk in my sleep. Kate has told me enough times. What the hell have
I said? Oh no.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Spill the Beans
Date: June 2 2011 10:32 EST
To: Christian Grey
You are a cad and a scoundrel – definitely no gentleman.
So, what did I say? No kisses for you until you talk!
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Sleeping talking Beauty
Date: June 2 2011 10:35 EST
To: Anastasia Steele
It would be most ungallant of me to say, and I have already been chastised for that.
But if you behave yourself, I may tell you this evening. I do have to go into a meeting
now.
Laters, baby.
Christian Grey
CEO, Cad & Scoundrel, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Right! I shall maintain radio silence until this evening. I fume. Jeez. Supposing I’ve said
I hate him, or worse still, that I love him, in my sleep. Oh, I hope not. I am not ready totell him that, and I’m sure he’s not ready to hear it, if he ever wants to hear it. I scowl at
my computer and decide that whatever I cook, I will make bread.
My mom has decided on gazpacho soup and a barbecue with steaks marinated in olive
oil, garlic, and lemon. Christian likes meat, and it’s simple to do. Bob has volunteered
to man the BBQ grill. What is it about men and fire, I ponder as I trail after my mother
through the supermarket with the shopping cart?
As we browse the raw meat cabinet, my phone rings. I scramble for it, thinking it may
be Christian. I don’t recognize the number.
“Hello?” I answer breathlessly.
“Anastasia Steele?”
“Yes.”
“It’s Elizabeth Morgan from SIP.”
“Oh – hi.”
“I’m calling to offer you the job of assistant to Mr. Jack Hyde. We’d like you to start
on Monday.”
“Wow. That’s great. Thank you!”
“You know the salary details?”
“Yes. Yes... that’s – I mean, I accept your offer. I’d love to come and work for you.”
“Excellent. We’ll see you Monday at 8:30 a.m.?”
“See you then. Goodbye. And thank you.”
I beam at my mom.
“You have a job?”
I nod gleefully, and she squeals and hugs me in the middle of Publix supermarket.
“Congratulations, darling! We have to buy some champagne!” She’s clapping her
hands and jumping up and down. Is she forty-two or twelve?
I glance down at my phone and frown, there’s a missed call from Christian. He never
phones me. I call him straight back.
“Anastasia,” he answers immediately.
“Hi,” I murmur shyly.
“I have to return to Seattle. Something’s come up. I am on my way to Hilton Head
now. Please apologize to your mother – I can’t make dinner.” He sounds very businesslike.
“Nothing serious, I hope?”
“I have a situation which I have to deal with. I’ll see you Friday. I’ll send Taylor to
collect you from the airport if I can’t come myself.” He sounds cold. Angry even. But for
the first time, I don’t immediately think it’s me.
“Okay. I hope you sort out your situation. Have a safe flight.”
“You too, baby,” he breathes, and with those words, my Christian is back briefly. Then
he hangs up.
Oh no. The last ‘situation’ he had was my virginity. Jeez, I hope it’s nothing like that.
I gaze at my mom. Her earlier jubilation has metamorphosed into concern.
“It’s Christian, he’s had to go back to Seattle. He apologizes.”“Oh! That’s a shame, darling. We can still have our barbecue, and now we have some-
thing to celebrate – your new job! You have to tell me all about it.”
It’s late afternoon, and Mom and I are lying beside the pool. My mother has relaxed to the
point where she is literally horizontal now that Mr. Megabucks is not coming to dinner. As
I lie in the sun, endeavoring to lose the pale, I think about yesterday evening and breakfast
today. I think about Christian, and my ridiculous grin refuses to subside. It keeps creeping
across my face, unbidden and disconcerting, as I recall our various conversations and what
we did... what he did.
There seems to be tidal shift in Christian’s attitude. He denies it but – he admits he’s
trying for more. What could have changed? What has altered since he sent his long email
and when I saw him yesterday? What has he done? I sit up suddenly, almost spilling my
Dr. Pepper. He had dinner with... her. Elena.
Holy Fuck!
My scalp prickles at the realization. Did she say something to him? Oh... to have been
a fly on the wall during their dinner. I could have landed in her soup or on her wine glass
and choked her.
“What is it, Ana, honey?” Mom asks, startled from her torpor.
“I’m just having a moment, Mom. What time is it?”
“About 6:30 p.m., darling.”
Hmm... he won’t have landed yet. Can I ask him? Should I ask him? Or perhaps she
has nothing to do with it. I fervently hope so. What did I say in my sleep? Crap... some
unguarded remark while dreaming about him, I bet? Whatever it is, or was, I hope the sea
of change is coming from within him and not because of her.
I am sweltering in this damned heat. I need another dip in the pool.
As I get ready for bed, I switch on my computer. I have heard nothing from Christian.
Not even a word that he’s arrived safely.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Safe Arrival?
Date: June 2 2011 22:32 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Sir
Please let me know that you have arrived safely. I am starting to worry. Thinking of you.
Your Ana. x
Three minutes later, I hear the ping from my email in-box.
From: Christian GreySubject: Sorry
Date: June 2 2011 19:36
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I have arrived safely, and please accept my apologies for not letting you know. I don’t
want to cause you any worry, it’s heart warming to know that you care for me. I am think-
ing of you too and as ever looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I sigh, Christian is back to formality.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: The Situation
Date: June 2 2011 22:40 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I think it is very evident that I care for you deeply. How could you doubt that?
I hope your ‘situation’ is in hand.
Your Ana x
PS: Are you going to tell me what I said in my sleep?
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Pleading the Fifth
Date: June 2 2011 19:45
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I like very much that you care for me. The ‘situation’ here is not yet resolved.
With regard to your PS: The answer is - No.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Pleading Insanity
Date: June 2 2011 22:48 EST
To: Christian Grey
I hope it was amusing. But you should know I cannot accept any responsibility for what
comes out of my mouth when I am unconscious. In fact – you probably misheard me.
A man of your advanced years is surely a little deaf.From: Christian Grey
Subject: Pleading Guilty
Date: June 2 2011 19:52
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
Sorry, could you speak up? I can’t hear you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Pleading Insanity Again
Date: June 2 2011 22:54 EST
To: Christian Grey
You are driving me crazy.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: I hope so...
Date: June 2 2011 19:59
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Miss Steele
I intend to do exactly that on Friday evening. Looking forward to it
;)
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Grrrrrr
Date: June 2 2011 23:02 EST
To: Christian Grey
I am officially pissed at you.
Goodnight.
Miss A. R. Steele
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Wild Cat
Date: June 2 2011 20:05
To: Anastasia SteeleAre you growling at me Miss Steele?
I possess a cat of my own for growlers.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Cat of his own? I’ve never seen a cat in his apartment. No, I am not going to answer him.
Oh, he can be so exasperating sometimes. Fifty shades of exasperating. I clamber into bed
and lie glaring at the ceiling as my eyes adjust to the dark. I hear another ping from my
computer. I am not going to look. No definitely not. No, I am not going to look. Gah!
Like the fool I am, I cannot resist the lure of Christian Grey’s words.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: What you said in your sleep
Date: June 2 2011 20:20
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
I’d rather hear you say the words that you uttered in your sleep when you’re conscious,
that’s why I won’t tell you. Go to sleep. You’ll need to be rested with what I have in mind
for you tomorrow.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh no... What have I said? It’s as bad as I think, I’m sure.My mother hugs me tightly.
“Follow your heart, darling, and please, please – try not to over-think things. Relax
and enjoy yourself. You are so young, sweetheart. You have so much of life to experience
yet, just let it happen. You deserve the best of everything.” Her heartfelt words are com-
forting whispered in my ear. She kisses my hair.
“Oh, Mom.” Hot, unwelcome tears prick my eyes as I cling to her.
“Darling, you know what they say. You have to kiss a lot of frogs before you find your
prince.”
I give her a lopsided, bittersweet smile.
“I think I’ve kissed a prince, Mom. I hope he doesn’t turn into a frog.”
She gives me her most endearing-motherly-absolute-unconditional-love smile, and I
marvel at the love I feel for this woman as we hug again.
“Ana – they’re calling your flight,” Bob’s voice is anxious.
“Will you visit, Mom?”
“Of course darling – soon. Love you.”
“Me too.”
Her eyes are red with unshed tears as she releases me. I hate leaving her. I hug Bob,
and turning, head to the gate – I do not have time for the first class lounge today. I will
myself not to glance back. But I do... and Bob is holding my mom, and tears are streamingdown her face. I can no longer hold mine back. I put my head down and proceed to the
gate, keeping my eyes on the shiny, white floor, blurred through my watery tears.
Once on board, in the luxury of first class, I curl up in my seat and try to compose my-
self. It is always painful to wrench myself away from Mom... she is scatty, disorganized,
but newly insightful, and she loves me. Unconditional love – what every child deserves
from its parents. I frown at my wayward thoughts, and pulling out my BlackBerry, stare
at it despondently.
What does Christian know of love? Seems he didn’t get the unconditional love he was
entitled to during his very early years. My heart twists, and my mother’s words waft like a
zephyr through my mind: Yes, Ana. Hell – what do you need? – a neon sign flashing on his
forehead? She thinks Christian loves me, but then she’s my mother, of course she’d think
that. She thinks I deserve the best of everything. I frown. It’s true, and in a moment of
startling clarity, I see it. It’s very simple: I want his love. I need Christian Grey to love me.
This is why I am so reticent about our relationship – because on some basic, fundamental
level, I recognize within me a deep-seated compulsion to be loved and cherished.
And because of his fifty shades – I am holding myself back. The BDSM is a distrac-
tion from the real issue. The sex is amazing, he’s wealthy, he’s beautiful, but this is all
meaningless without his love, and the real heart-fail is that I don’t know if he’s capable of
love. He doesn’t even love himself. I recall his self-loathing, her love being the only form
he found – acceptable. Punished – whipped, beaten, whatever their relationship entailed –
he feels undeserving of love. Why does he feel like that? How can he feel like that? His
words haunt me: ‘It’s very hard to grow up in a perfect family when you’re not perfect.’
I close my eyes, imagining his pain, and I can’t begin to comprehend it. I shudder as
I remember that I may have divulged too much. What have I confessed to Christian in my
sleep? What secrets have I revealed?
I stare at the BlackBerry in the vague hope that it will give me some answers. Rather
unsurprisingly, it is not very forthcoming. As we haven’t taken off yet, I decide to email
my Fifty Shades.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Homeward Bound
Date: June 3 2011 12:53 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I am once again ensconced in first class, for which I thank you. I am counting the min-
utes until I see you this evening, and perhaps torturing the truth out of you about my
nocturnal admissions.
Your Ana x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Homeward Bound
Date: June 3 2011 09:58
To: Anastasia SteeleAnastasia, I look forward to seeing you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
His response makes me frown. It sounds clipped and formal, not his usual witty, pithy
style.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Homeward Bound
Date: June 3 2011 13:01 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dearest Mr. Grey
I hope everything is okay re ‘the situation.’ The tone of your email is worrying.
Ana x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Homeward Bound
Date: June 3 2011 10:04
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
The situation could be better. Have you taken off yet? If so you should not be emailing.
You are putting yourself at risk, in direct contravention of the rule regarding your personal
safety. I meant what I said about punishments.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Crap. Okay. Jeez. What is eating him? Perhaps ‘the situation’? Maybe Taylor’s gone
AWOL, maybe he’s dropped a few million on the stock market – whatever the reason.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Over-Reaction
Date: June 3 2011 13:06 EST
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grumpy
The aircraft doors are still open. We are delayed but only by ten minutes. My welfare
and that of the passengers around me is vouchsafed. You may stow your twitchy palmfor now.
Miss Steele
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Apologies - Twitchy Palm Stowed
Date: June 3 2011 10:08
To: Anastasia Steele
I miss you and your smart mouth Miss Steele.
I want you safely home.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Apology Accepted
Date: June 3 2011 13:10 EST
To: Christian Grey
They are shutting the doors. You won’t hear another peep from me, especially given your
deafness.
Laters.
Ana x
I switch off the BlackBerry, unable to shake my anxiety. Something is up with Christian.
Perhaps ‘the situation’ is out of hand. I sit back, glancing up at the locker where my bags
are stowed. I managed this morning, with my mother’s help, to buy Christian a small gift
to say thank you for first class and for the gliding. I smile at the memory of the soaring –
that was something else. I don’t know yet if I’ll give my silly gift to him. He might think
it’s childish – and if he’s in a strange mood, maybe not. I am both eager to return and
apprehensive of what awaits me at my journey’s end. As I mentally flick through all the
scenarios that could be ‘the situation’, I become aware that once again the only empty seat
is beside me. I shake my head as the thought crosses my mind that Christian might have
purchased the adjacent seat so that I couldn’t talk to anyone. I dismiss the idea as ridicu-
lous – no one could be that controlling, that jealous, surely. I close my eyes as the plane
taxis towards the runway.
I emerge into the Sea-Tac arrivals terminal eight hours later to find Taylor waiting and
holding up a board that reads Miss A Steele. Honestly! But it’s good to see him.
“Hello, Taylor.”“Miss Steele,” he greets me formally, but I see a hint of smile in his sharp brown eyes.
He looks his usual immaculate self – smart charcoal suit, white shirt, and charcoal tie.
“I do know what you look like Taylor, you don’t need a board, and I do wish you’d call
me, Ana.”
“Ana. Can I take your bags, please?”
“No, I can manage. Thank you.”
His lips tighten perceptibly.
“But, if you’d be more comfortable taking them,” I stammer.
“Thank you.” He grabs my backpack and my newly acquired wheelie case for the
clothes my mother has bought me. “This way, ma’am.”
I sigh. He’s so polite. I remember, though I would like to erase it from my memory,
that this man has bought me underwear. In fact – and the thought unsettles me – he’s the
only man who’s ever bought me underwear. Even Ray’s never had to endure that hardship.
We walk in silence to the black Audi SUV outside in the airport parking lot, and he holds
the door open for me. I clamber in, wondering if wearing such a short skirt for the return to
Seattle was a good idea. It was cool and welcome in Georgia. Here I feel exposed. Once
Taylor has stowed my bags in the trunk, we set off for Escala.
The journey is slow, caught up in rush hour traffic. Taylor keeps his eyes on the road
ahead. Taciturn does not begin to describe him.
I can bear the silence no longer.
“How’s Christian, Taylor?”
“Mr. Grey is preoccupied, Miss Steele.”
Oh, this must be ‘the situation.’ I am mining a seam of gold.
“Preoccupied?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
I frown at Taylor, and he glances at me in the rear-view mirror, our eyes meet. He’s
saying no more. Jeez, he can be as tightlipped as the control freak himself.
“Is he okay?”
“I believe so, ma’am.”
“Are you more comfortable calling me, Miss Steele?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Oh, okay.”
Well, that curtails our conversation, and we continue in silence. I begin to think that
Taylor’s recent slip, when he told me that Christian had been hell on wheels, was an anom-
aly. Perhaps he’s embarrassed about it, worried that he’s been disloyal. The silence is suf-
focating.
“Could you put some music on please?”
“Certainly, ma’am. What would you like to hear?”
“Something soothing.”
I see a smile play on Taylor’s lips as our eyes meet briefly again in the mirror.
“Yes, ma’am.”
He pushes a few buttons on the steering wheel, and the gentle strains of Pachelbel’s
canon fills the space between us. Oh yes... this is what I need.
“Thank you.” I sit back as we drive slowly but steadily along the I-5 into Seattle.Twenty-five minutes, later he drops me outside the impressive façade that is the entrance
to Escala.
“In you go, ma’am,” he says, holding the door open for me. “I’ll bring up your luggage
is.”H expression is soft, warm, avuncular even.
Jeez... Uncle Taylor, what a thought.
“Thank you for meeting me.”
“It’s a pleasure, Miss Steele.” He smiles, and I head into the building. The doorman
nods and waves.
As I ride up to the thirtieth floor, a thousand butterflies stretch their wings and flutter
erratically in my stomach. Why am I so nervous? And I know it’s because I have no idea
what kind of mood Christian’s going to be in when I arrive. My inner goddess is hopeful
for one type of mood, my subconscious, like me, is fraught with nerves.
The elevator doors open, and I’m in the foyer. It is so strange not to be met by Taylor.
Of course, he’s parking the car. In the great room, Christian is on his BlackBerry talking
quietly as he stares out of the glass doors at the early evening Seattle skyline. He’s wearing
a gray suit with the jacket undone, and he’s running his hand through his hair, he’s. H agi-
tated, tense even. Oh no – what’s wrong? Agitated or not, he’s still beyond beautiful. How
can he look so... arresting? It’s such a pleasure to stand and drink in the sheer sight of him.
“No trace... Okay... Yes.” He turns and sees me, and his whole demeanor changes.
From tension to relief to something else: a look that calls directly to my inner goddess, a
look of sensual carnality, gray eyes blazing.
My mouth goes dry and desire blooms in my body... whoa.
“Keep me informed,” he snaps and shuts off his phone as he strides purposefully to-
ward me. I stand paralyzed as he closes the distance between us, devouring me with his
eyes. Holy shit... something’s amiss – the strain in his jaw, the anxiety around his eyes.
He shrugs out of his jacket, undoes his dark tie, and slings them both on to the couch en
route to me. Then his arms are wrapped around me, and he’s pulling me to him, hard, fast,
gripping my ponytail to tilt my head up, kissing me like his life depends on it. What the
hell? He drags the hair tie painfully out of my hair, but I don’t care. There’s a desperate,
primal quality to his kiss. He needs me, for whatever reason, at this point in time, and I
have never felt so desired and coveted. It’s dark and sensual and alarming all at the same
time. I kiss him back with equal fervor, my fingers twisting and fisting in his hair. Our
tongues entwined, our passion and ardor erupting between us. He tastes divine, hot, sexy,
and his scent – all body wash and Christian is so arousing. He drags his mouth away from
mine, and he’s staring down at me, gripped by some unnamed emotion.
“What’s wrong?” I breathe.
“I’m so glad you’re back. Shower with me – now.”
I can’t decide if it’s a request or a command.
“Yes,” I whisper, and he grabs my hand, leading me out of the big room into his bed-
room to his bathroom.
Once there, he releases me and sets the water running in the far too spacious shower.
Turning slowly, he gazes at me, eyes hooded.“I like your skirt. It’s very short,” he says, his voice low. “You have great legs.”
He steps out of his shoes and reaches down to take each of his socks off, never taking
his eyes off me. I am rendered speechless by the look of hunger in his eyes. Wow... to be
this wanted by this Greek god. I mirror his actions and step out of my black flats. Sud-
denly, he reaches for me, backing me up against the wall. Kissing me, my face, my throat,
my lips... running his hands into my hair. I feel the cool, smooth tiled wall at my back
as he pushes himself against me so that I’m flattened between his heat and the chill of the
ceramic. Tentatively, I place my arms on his upper arms, and he groans as I squeeze tightly.
“I want you now. Here... fast, hard,” he breathes, and his hands are on my thighs,
pushing up my skirt. “Are you still bleeding?”
“No.” I flush.
“Good.”
His thumbs hook over my white cotton panties, and abruptly he drops to his knees as
he tugs them off. My skirt is now rucked up so that I’m naked from the waist down and
panting, wanting. He grabs my hips, pushing me against the wall again, and kisses me at
the apex of my thighs. Grabbing my upper thighs, he forces my legs apart. I groan loudly,
feeling his tongue circling my clitoris. Oh my. Tipping my head back involuntarily, I moan
as my fingers find their way into this hair.
His tongue is relentless, strong and insistent, laving me – swirling round and round,
again and again – non-stop. It’s exquisite, the intensity of feeling – it’s almost painful. My
body starts to quicken, and he releases me. What? No! My breathing is ragged as I pant,
gazing at him with delicious anticipation. He grabs my face with both hands, holding me
firmly, and he kisses me hard, thrusting his tongue into my mouth so I can taste my arousal.
Unzipping his fly, he frees himself, grabs the backs of my thighs, and lifts me.
“Wrap your legs around me, baby,” he commands, his voice urgent, strained.
I do as I’m told and wrap my arms around his neck, and he moves quickly and sharply,
filling me. Ah! He gasps, and I groan. Holding my behind, his fingers digging into my soft
flesh, he begins to move, slowly at first – a steady even tempo... but as his control unravels,
he speeds up... faster, and faster. Ahhh! I tip my head back and concentrate on the invad-
ing, punishing, heavenly sensation... pushing me, pushing me... onward, higher, up... and
when I can take no more, I explode around him, spiraling into an intense, all-consuming
orgasm. He lets go with a deep growl, and he buries his head in my neck as he buries him-
self inside me, groaning loudly and incoherently as he finds his release.
His breathing is erratic, but he kisses me tenderly, not moving, still inside me, and I
blink, unseeing into his eyes. As he comes into focus, he gently pulls out of me, holding
me steady while I place my feet on the floor. The bathroom is now cloudy with steam...
and hot. I feel overdressed.
“You seem pleased to see me,” I murmur with a shy smile.
His lips quirk up.
“Yes, Miss Steele, I think my pleasure is pretty self-evident. Come – let me get you
in the shower.”
He undoes the next three buttons of his shirt, removes the cufflinks, tugs it over his
head, and discards it on the floor. Removing his suit pants and boxer briefs, he kicks themto one side. He begins to undo the buttons on my blouse while I watch him, yearning to
reach out and stroke his chest, but I contain myself.
“How was your journey?” he asks mildly. He seems so much calmer now, his appre-
hension gone, dissolved by sexual congress.
“Fine, thank you,” I murmur, still breathless. “Thanks once again for first class. It
really is a much nicer way to travel.” I smile shyly at him. “I have some news,” I add
nervously.
“Oh?” he looks down at me as he undoes the last button, slips my blouse down my
arms, and throws it on top of his discarded clothes.
“I have a job.”
He stills, then smiles at me, his eyes warm and soft.
“Congratulations, Miss Steele. Now will you tell me where?” he teases.
“You don’t know?”
He shakes his head, frowning slightly.
“Why would I know?”
“With your stalking capabilities, I thought you might have... ” I trail off as his face
falls.
“Anastasia, I wouldn’t dream of interfering in your career, unless you ask me to, of
course.” He looks wounded.
“So you have no idea which company?”
“No. I know there are four publishing companies in Seattle – so I am assuming it’s one
of them.”
“SIP”
“Oh, the small one, good. Well done.” He leans forward and kisses my forehead.
“Clever girl. When do you start?”
“Monday.”
“That soon, eh? I’d better take advantage of you while I still can. Turn round.”
I am thrown by his casual command, but do as I’m bid, and he undoes my bra and
unzips my skirt. He pushes my skirt down, cupping my behind as he does, and kissing my
shoulder. He leans against, me and his nose nuzzles my hair, inhaling deeply. He squeezes
my buttocks.
“You intoxicate me, Miss Steele, and you calm me. Such a heady combination.” He
kisses my hair. Grabbing my hand, he tugs me into the shower.
“Ow,” I squeal. The water is practically scalding. Christian grins down at me as the
water cascades over him.
“It’s only a little hot water.”
And actually he’s right. It feels heavenly, washing off the sticky Georgia morning and
the stickiness from our lovemaking.
“Turn round,” he orders, and I comply, turning to face the wall. “I want to wash you,”
he murmurs and reaches for the body wash. He squirts a little into his hand.
“I have something else to tell you,” I murmur as his hands start on my shoulders.
“Oh, yes?” he asks mildly.
I steel myself with a deep breath.
“My friend José’s photography show is opening Thursday in Portland.”He stills, his hands hovering over my breasts. I have emphasized the word ‘friend.’
“Yes, what about it?” he asks sternly.
“I said I would go. Do you want to come with me?”
After what feels like a monumental amount of time, he slowly starts washing me again.
“What time?”
“The opening is at 7:30 p.m.”
He kisses my ear.
“Okay.”
Inside my subconscious relaxes and then collapses, slumped into an old battered arm-
chair.
“Were you nervous about asking me?”
“Yes. How can you tell?”
“Anastasia, your whole body’s just relaxed,” he says dryly.
“Well, you just seem to be um... on the jealous side.”
“Yes, I am,” he says darkly. “And you’d do well to remember that. But thank you for
asking. We’ll take Charlie Tango.”
Oh, the helicopter of course, silly me. More flying... cool! I grin.
“Can I wash you?” I ask.
“I don’t think so,” he murmurs, and he kisses me gently on my neck to take the sting
out of his refusal. I pout at the wall as he caresses my back with soap.
“Will you ever let me touch you?” I ask boldly.
He stills again, his hand on my behind.
“Put your hands on the wall Anastasia. I’m going to take you again,” he murmurs in
my ear as he grabs my hips, and I know that the discussion is over.
Later we are seated at the breakfast bar, dressed in bathrobes, having consumed Mrs.
Jones’s rather excellent pasta alle vongole.
“More wine?” Christian asks, gray eyes glowing.
“A small glass, please.” The Sancerre is crisp and delicious. Christian pours one for me
and one for himself.
“How’s the um... situation that bought you to Seattle?” I ask tentatively.
He frowns.
“Out of hand,” he murmurs bitterly. “But nothing for you to worry about, Anastasia. I
have plans for you this evening.”
“Oh?”
“Yes. I want you ready and waiting in my playroom in fifteen minutes.” He stands
and gazes down at me.
“You can get ready in your room. Incidentally, the walk-in closet is now full of clothes
for you. I don’t want any arguments about them.” He narrows his eyes, daring me to say
something. When I don’t, he stalks off to his study.
Me! Argue? With you, Fifty Shades? It’s more than my backside’s worth. I sit on
the bar stool, momentarily stupefied, trying to assimilate this morsel of information. He’sbought me clothes. I roll my eyes in an exaggerated fashion knowing full well he can’t see
me. Car, phone, computer... clothes, it’ll be a damn condo next, and then I really will be
his mistress.
Ho! My subconscious has her snarky face on. I ignore her and make my way upstairs
toward my room so, it is still mine... why? I thought he’d agreed to let me sleep with him.
I suppose he’s not used to sharing his personal space, but then, neither am I. I console my-
self with the thought that at least I have somewhere to escape from him.
Examining the door, I find that it has a lock but no key. I wonder briefly if Mrs. Jones
has a spare. I’ll ask her. I open the closet door and close it again quickly. Holy Crap – he’s
spent a fortune. It resembles Kate’s – so many clothes hanging neatly on the rail. Deep
down, I know that they’ll all fit. But I have no time to think about that – I have to get kneel-
ing in the Red Room of... Pain... or Pleasure – hopefully this evening.
Kneeling by the door, I am naked except for my panties. My heart is in my mouth. Jeez,
I thought after the bathroom he would have had enough. The man is insatiable, or maybe
all men are like him. I have no idea, no one to compare him too. Closing my eyes, I try to
calm myself down, to connect with my inner sub. She’s there somewhere, hiding behind
my inner goddess.
Anticipation runs bubbling like soda through my veins. What will he do? I take a deep
steadying breath, but I cannot deny it, I’m excited, aroused, wet already. This is so... I
want to think wrong, but somehow it’s not. It’s right for Christian. It’s what he wants – and
after the last few days... after all he’s done, I have to man up and take whatever he decides
he wants, whatever he thinks he needs.
The memory of his look when I came in this evening, the longing in his face, his deter-
mined stride toward me like I was an oasis in the desert. I’d do almost anything to see that
look again. I press my thighs together at the delicious memory, and it reminds me that I
need to spread my knees. I shuffle them apart. How long will he make me wait? The wait
is crippling me, crippling me with a dark and tantalizing desire. I glance quickly around
the subtly lit room; the cross, the table, the couch, the bench... that bed. It looms so large,
and it’s made up with red satin sheets. Which piece of apparatus will he use?
The door opens and Christian breezes in, ignoring me completely. I glance down
quickly, staring at my hands, positioned with care on my spread thighs. Placing something
on the large chest beside the door, he strolls casually toward the bed. I indulge myself in a
quick glimpse at him, and my heart almost lurches to a stop. He’s naked except for those
soft ripped jeans, top button casually undone. Jeez, he looks so freaking hot. My sub-
conscious is frantically fanning herself, and my inner goddess is swaying and writhing to
some primal carnal rhythm. She’s so ready. I lick my lips instinctively. My blood pounds
through my body, thick and heavy with salacious hunger. What is he going to do to me?
Turning, he nonchalantly walks back to the chest of drawers. Opening one, he begins
to remove items and place them on the top. My curiosity burns, blazes even, but I resist
the overwhelming temptation to sneak a quick peek. When he finishes what he’s doing,he comes to stand in front of me. I can see his naked feet, and I want to kiss every inch of
them... run my tongue over his instep, suck each of his toes. Holy shit.
“You look lovely,” he breathes.
I keep my head down, conscious that he’s staring at me while I am practically naked. I
feel the flush as it slowly spreads over my face. He bends down and cups my chin, forcing
my face up to meet his gaze.
“You are one beautiful woman, Anastasia. And you’re all mine,” he murmurs. “Stand
up.” His command is soft full of sensual promise.
Shakily, I get to my feet.
“Look at me,” he breathes, and I stare up into his smoldering gray gaze. It is his Dom
gaze – cold, hard, and sexy as hell, seven shades of sin in one enticing look. My mouth
dries, and I know I will do anything he asks. An almost cruel smile plays across his lips.
“We don’t have a signed contract, Anastasia. But we’ve discussed limits. And I want
to re-iterate we have safe words, okay?”
Holy fuck... what has he got planned that I need safe words?
“What are they?” he asks authoritatively.
I frown slightly at his question, and his face hardens perceptibly.
“What are the safe words, Anastasia?” he says slowly and deliberately.
“Yellow,” I mumble.
“And?” he prompts, his mouth setting in a hard line.
“Red,” I breathe.
“Remember those.”
And I can’t help it... I raise my eyebrow at him and am about to remind him of my
GPA, but the sudden frosty glint in his icy gray eyes stops me in my tracks.
“Don’t start with your smart mouth in here, Miss Steele. Or I will fuck it with you on
your knees. Do you understand?”
I swallow instinctively. Okay. I blink rapidly, chastened. Actually, it’s his tone of
voice, rather than the threat, that intimidates me.
“Well?”
“Yes, Sir,” I mumble hastily.
“Good girl,” he pauses as he stares at me. “My intention is not that you should safe-
word because you’re in pain. What I intend to do to you will be intense. Very intense, and
you have to guide me. Do you understand?”
Not really. Intense? Wow.
“This is about touch, Anastasia. You will not be able to see me or hear me. But you’ll
be able to feel me.”
I frown – not hear him? How is that going to work? He turns, and I hadn’t noticed
that above the chest is a sleek, flat, matt-black box. As he waves his hand in front, the box
splits in half: two doors slide open revealing a CD player and a host of buttons. Christian
presses several of these buttons in sequence. Nothing happens, but he seems satisfied. I
am mystified. When he turns to face me again, he wears his small I-have-a-secret smile.
“I am going to tie you to that bed, Anastasia. But I’m going to blindfold you first and,”
he reveals his iPod in his hand, “you will not be able to hear me. All you will hear is the
music I am going to play for you.”Okay. A musical interlude, not what I was expecting. Does he ever do what I expect?
Jeez, I hope it’s not rap.
“Come.” Taking my hand, he leads me over to the antique four-poster bed. There are
shackles attached at each corner, fine metal chains with leather cuffs, glinting against the
red satin.
Oh boy, I think my heart is going to leave my chest, and I’m melting from the inside
out, desire coursing through me. Could I be any more excited?
“Stand here.”
I am facing the bed. He leans down and whispers in my ear.
“Wait here, keep your eyes on the bed. Picture yourself lying here bound and totally
at my mercy.”
Oh my.
He moves away for a moment, and I can hear him near the door fetching something.
All my senses are hyper alert, my hearing more acute. He’s picked up something from the
rack of whips and paddles by the door. Holy cow. What is he going to do?
I feel him behind me. He takes my hair, pulls it into a ponytail behind me, and starts
to braid it.
“While I like your pigtails, Anastasia, I am too impatient to be at you right now. So one
will have to do.” His voice is low, soft.
His deft fingers skim my back occasionally as they work down my hair, and each ca-
sual touch is like a sweet, electric shock against my skin. He fastens the end with a hair tie,
then gently tugs the braid so that I’m forced to step back flush against him. He pulls again
to the side so that I angle my head, giving him easier access to my neck. Leaning down,
he nuzzles my neck. Tracing his teeth and tongue from the base of my ear to my shoulder.
He hums softly as he does, and the sound resonates through me. Right down... right down
there, inside me. Unbidden, I groan quietly.
“Hush now,” he breathes against my skin. He holds up his hands in front of me, his
arms touching mine. In his right hand is a flogger. I remember the name from my first
introduction to this room.
“Touch it,” he whispers, and he sounds like the devil himself. My body flames in
response. Tentatively, I reach out and brush the long strands. It has many long fronds, all
soft suede with small beads at the end.
“I will use this. It will not hurt, but it will bring your blood to the surface of your skin
and make you very sensitive.”
Oh, he says it won’t hurt.
“What are the safe words, Anastasia?”
“Um... yellow and red, Sir,” I whisper.
“Good girl. Remember, most of your fear is in your mind.”
He drops the flogger on the bed, and his hands move to my waist.
“You won’t be needing these,” he murmurs and hooks his fingers into my panties and
sweeps them down my legs. I step unsteadily out of them, supporting myself on the ornate
post of the bed.“Stand still,” he orders, and he kisses my behind and then gently nips me twice, making
me tense. “Now lie down. Face up,” he adds as he smacks me hard on the behind, making
me jump.
Hastily, I crawl onto the bed’s hard, unyielding mattress and lie down, looking up at
him. The satin of the sheet beneath me is soft and cool against my skin. His gaze is impas-
sive, except for his eyes which glow with a barely leashed excitement.
“Hands above your head,” he orders, and I do as I’m bid.
Jeez, my body hungers for him. I want him already.
He turns, and out of the corner of my eye, I watch him saunter back over to the chest of
drawers, returning with the iPod and what looks like an eye mask, similar to the one I used
on my flight to Atlanta. The thought makes me want to smile, but I can’t quite make my
lips cooperate. I am too consumed with anticipation. I just know my face is completely
immobile, my eyes huge, as I gaze at him.
Sitting down on the edge of the bed, he shows me the iPod. It has a strange antenna
device as well headphones. How odd. I frown as I try to figure this out.
“This transmits what’s playing on the iPod to the system in the room.”, Christian an-
swers my unspoken query as he taps the small antenna. “I can hear what you’re hearing,
and I have a remote control unit for it.” He smirks his private-joke smile and holds up a
small, flat device that looks like a very hip calculator. He leans across me, inserting the ear
buds gently into my ears, and puts the iPod down somewhere on the bed above my head.
“Lift your head,” he commands, and I do so immediately.
Slowly, he slides the mask on, pulling the elastic over the back of my head, and I’m
blind. The elastic on the mask holds the ear buds in place. I can still hear him, though the
sound is muffled as he rises from the bed. I’m deafened by my own breathing – it’s shal-
low and erratic, reflecting my excitement. Christian takes my left arm, stretches it gently to
the left-hand corner, and attaches the leather cuff around my wrist. His long fingers stroke
the length of my arm once he’s finished. Oh! His touch elicits a delicious, tickly shiver. I
hear him move slowly round to the other side, takes my right arm and cuffs it. Again, his
long fingers linger along my arm. Oh my... I am fit to burst already. Why is this so erotic?
He moves to the bottom of the bed and grabs both of my ankles.
“Lift your head again,” he orders.
I comply, and he drags me down the bed so that my arms are stretched out and almost
straining at the cuffs. Holy cow, I cannot move my arms. A frisson of trepidation mixed
with tantalizing exhilaration sweeps through my body, making me wetter. I groan. Parting
my legs, he cuffs first my right ankle and then my left so I am staked out, spread-eagled,
and totally vulnerable to him. It’s so unnerving that I can’t see him. I listen hard... what’s
he doing? And I hear nothing, just my breathing and the pounding thud of my heart as
blood pulses furiously against my eardrums.
Abruptly, the soft silent hiss and pop of the iPod springs into life. From inside my
head, a lone angelic voice sings unaccompanied a long sweet note, and it’s joined almost
immediately by another voice, and then more voices – Holy cow, a celestial choir – singing
acapella in my head, an ancient, ancient hymnal. What in heaven’s name is this? I have
never heard anything like it. Something almost unbearably soft brushes against my neck,
running languidly down my throat, slowly across my chest, over my breasts, caressingme... pulling at my nipples, it’s so soft, skimming underneath. It’s so unexpected. It’s fur!
A fur glove?
Christian trails his hand, unhurried and deliberate, down to my belly, circling my navel,
then carefully from hip to hip, and I’m trying to anticipate where he’s going next... but the
music... it’s in my head... transporting me... the fur across the line of my pubic hair...
between my legs, along my thighs, down one leg... up the other... it almost tickles... but
not quite... more voices join... the heavenly choir all singing different parts, their voices
blending blissfully and sweetly together in a melodic harmony that is beyond anything I’ve
ever heard. I catch one word -- ‘deus’-- and I realize they are singing in Latin. And still,
the fur is moving down my arms and round my waist... back up across my breasts. My
nipples harden beneath the soft touch... and I’m panting... wondering where his hand will
go next. Suddenly, the fur is gone, and I can feel the fronds of the flogger flowing over
my skin, following the same path as the fur, and it’s so hard to concentrate with the music
in my head – it sounds like a hundred voices singing, weaving an ethereal tapestry of fine,
silken gold and silver through my head, mixed with the feel of the soft suede against my
skin... trailing over me... oh my... abruptly, it disappears. Then suddenly, sharply, it bites
down on my belly.
“Aagghh!” I cry out. It takes me by surprise, and it doesn’t exactly hurt, but tingles all
over, and he hits me again. Harder.
“Aaah!”
I want to move, to writhe... to escape, or to welcome, each blow... I don’t know – it’s
so overwhelming... I can’t pull my arms... my legs are stuck... I am held very firmly in
place... and again he strikes across my breasts – I cry out. And it’s a sweet agony – bear-
able, just... pleasant – no, not immediately, but as my skin sings with each blow in perfect
counterpoint to the music in my head, I am dragged into a dark, dark part of my psyche that
surrenders to this most erotic sensation. Yes – I get this. He hits me across my hip. Then,t
moves in swift blows over my pubic hair, on my thighs, and down my inner thighs... and
back up my body... across my hips. He keeps going as the music reaches a climax, and
then suddenly – the music stops. And so does he. Then the singing starts again... build-
ing and building, and he rains down blows on me... and I groan and writhe. Once again,
it ceases and all is quiet... except my wild breathing... and wild yearning. For... oh...
what’s happening? What’s he going to do now? The excitement is almost unbearable. I’ve
entered a very dark, carnal place.
The bed moves and shifts as I feel him clamber over me, and the song starts again. He’s
got it on repeat... this time it’s his nose and lips that take the place of the fur... running
down my neck and throat, kissing, sucking... trailing down to my breasts... Ah! Taunting
each of my nipples in turn... his tongue swirling round one while his fingers relentlessly
tease the other... I groan, loudly I think, though I can’t hear. I am lost. Lost in him... lost
in the astral, seraphic voices... lost to all the sensations I cannot escape... I am completely
at the mercy of his expert touch.
He moves down to my belly – his tongue circling my navel – following the path of the
flogger and the fur... I moan. He’s kissing and sucking and nibbling... moving south...
and then his tongue is there. At, a the junction of my thighs. I throw my head back and cry
out as I almost detonate into orgasm... I’m on the brink, and he stops.No! The bed shifts, and he kneels between my legs. He leans toward the bedpost, and
the cuff on my ankle is suddenly gone. I pull my leg to the middle of the bed... resting it
against him. He leans over to the opposite post and frees my other leg. His hands travel
quickly down both my legs, squeezing and kneading, bringing life back into them. Then,
grasping my hips, he lifts me so that my back is no longer on the bed. I am arched, resting
on my shoulders. What? He’s kneeling up between my legs... and in one swift, slamming
move he’s inside me... oh fuck... and I cry out again. The quiver of my impending orgasm
begins, and he stills. The quiver dies... oh no... he’s going to torture me further.
“Please!” I wail.
He grips me harder... in warning? I don’t know, his fingers digging into the flesh of
my behind as I lay panting... so I purposefully still. Very slowly, he starts to move again...
out and then in... agonizingly slowly. Holy fuck – Please! I’m screaming inside... And as
the number of voices in the choral piece increases... so does his pace, infinitesimally, he’s
so controlled... so in time with the music. And I can no longer bear it.
“Please,” I beg, and in one swift move, he lowers me back onto the bed, and he’s ly-
ing on top of me, his hands on the bed beside my breasts as he supports his weight, and he
thrusts into me,.as A the music reaches its climax, I fall... free fall... into the most intense,
agonizing orgasm I have ever had, and Christian follows me... thrusting hard into me, three
more times... finally stilling, then collapsing on top of me.
As my consciousness returns from wherever it’s been, Christian pulls out of me. The
music has stopped, and I can feel him stretch across my body as he undoes the cuff on my
right wrist. I groan as my hand is freed. He quickly frees my other hand, gently pulls the
mask from my eyes, and removes the ear buds. I blink in the dim soft light and stare up
into his intense gray gaze.
“Hi,” he murmurs.
“Hi, yourself,” I breathe shyly back at him. His lips quirk up into a smile, and he leans
down and kisses me softly.
“Well done, you,” he whispers. “Turn over.”
Holy fuck – what’s he going to do now? His eyes soften.
“I’m just going to rub your shoulders.”
“Oh... okay.”
I roll stiffly onto my front. I am so tired. Christian sits astride me and starts to mas-
sage my shoulders. I groan loudly – he has such strong, knowing fingers. Leaning down,
he kisses my head.
“What was that music?” I mumble almost inarticulately.
“It’s called Spem In Alium, or the Forty Part Motet, by Thomas Tallis.”
“It was... overwhelming.”
“I’ve always wanted to fuck to it.”
“Not another first, Mr. Grey?”
“Indeed, Miss Steele.”
I groan again as his fingers work their magic on my shoulders.
“Well, it’s the first time I’ve fucked to it, too,” I murmur sleepily.
“Hmm... you and I, we’re giving each other many firsts.” His voice is matter-of-fact.
“What did I say to you in my sleep, Ch – err, Sir?”His hands pause their ministrations for a moment.
“You said lots of things, Anastasia. You talked about cages and strawberries... that you
wanted more... and that you missed me.”
Oh, thank heavens for that.
“Is that all?” The relief in my voice is evident.
Christian stops his heavenly massage and shifts so that he’s lying beside me. His head
propped up on his elbow. He’s frowning.
“What did you think you’d said?”
Oh crap.
“That I thought you were ugly, conceited, and that you were hopeless in bed.”
He crease on his brow deepens.
“Well, naturally I am all those things, and now you’ve got me really intrigued. What
are you hiding from me, Miss Steele?”
I blink at him innocently.
“I’m not hiding anything.”
“Anastasia, you are a hopeless liar.”
“I thought you were going to make me giggle after sex, this isn’t doing it for me.”
His lips quirk up.
“I can’t tell jokes.”
“Mr. Grey! Something you can’t do?” I grin at him, and he grins back.
“No, hopeless joke teller.” He looks so proud of himself that I start to giggle.
“I’m a hopeless joke teller too,”
“That is such a lovely sound,” he murmurs, and he leans forward and kisses me.
“And you are hiding something, Anastasia. I may have to torture it out of you.”I wake with a jolt. I think I’ve just fallen down some stairs in a dream, and I bolt upright,
momentarily disorientated. It is dark, and I’m in Christian’s bed alone. Something has
woken me, some nagging thought. I glance over at the alarm clock on his bedside. It is
5:00 in the morning, but I feel rested. Why is that? Oh – it’s the time difference – it would
be 8:00 a.m. in Georgia. Holy crap... I need to take my pill. I clamber out of bed, grateful
for whatever it is that has woken me. I can hear faint notes from the piano. Christian is
playing. This I must see. I love watching him play. Naked, I grab my bathrobe from the
chair and wander quietly down the corridor, slipping on my robeand listening to the magi-
cal sound of the melodic lament that’s coming from the great room.
Shrouded in darkness, Christian sits in a bubble of light as he plays, and his hair glints
with burnished copper highlights. He looks naked, though I know he’s wearing his PJ
bottoms. He’s concentrating, playing beautifully, lost in the melancholy of the music. I
hesitate, watching from the shadows, not wanting to interrupt him. I want to hold him.
He looks lost, sad even, and achingly lonely – or maybe it’s just the music that’s so full of
poignant sorrow. He finishes the piece, pauses for a split second, then starts to play it again.
I move cautiously toward him, drawn as the moth to the flame... the idea makes me smile.
He glances up at me and frowns before his gaze returns to his hands
Oh crap, is he pissed off that I am disturbing him?
“You should be asleep,” he scolds mildly.I can tell he’s pre-occupied with something.
“So should you,” I retort not quite as mildly.
He glances up again, his lips twitching with a trace of a smile.
“Are you scolding me, Miss Steele?”
“Yes, Mr. Grey, I am.”
“Well, I can’t sleep.” He frowns once more as a trace of irritation or anger flashes
across his face. With me? Surely not.
I ignore his facial expression and very bravely sit down beside him on the piano stool,
placing my head on his bare shoulder to watch his deft, agile fingers caress the keys. He
pauses fractionally, and then continues to the end of the piece.
“What was that?” I ask softly.
“Chopin. Opus 28, number 4. In E minor, if you’re interested,” he murmurs.
“I’m always interested in what you do.”
He turns and softly presses his lips against my hair.
“I didn’t mean to wake you.”
“You didn’t. Play the other one.”
“Other one?”
“The Bach piece that you played the first night I stayed.”
“Oh, the Marcello.”
He starts to play slowly and deliberately. I feel the movement of his hands in his shoul-
der as I lean against him and close my eyes. The sad, soulful notes swirl slowly and mourn-
fully around us, echoing off the walls. It is a hauntingly beautiful piece, sadder even than
the Chopin, and I lose myself to the beauty of the lament. To a certain extent, it reflects
how I feel. The deep poignant longing I have to know this extraordinary man better, to try
and understand his sadness. All too soon, the piece is at an end.
“Why do you only play such sad music?”
I sit upright and gaze up at him as he shrugs in answer to my question, his expression
wary.
“So you were just six when you started to play?” I prompt.
He nods, his wary look intensifying. After a moment he volunteers.
“I threw myself into learning the piano to please my new mother.”
“To fit into the perfect family?”
“Yes, so to speak,” he says evasively. “Why are you awake? Don’t you need to re-
cover from yesterday’s exertions?”
“It’s 8:00 in the morning for me. And I need to take my pill.”
He raises his eyebrows in surprise.
“Well remembered,” he murmurs, and I can tell he’s impressed. His lips quirk up in a
half smile.
“Only you would start a course of time-specific birth control pills in a different time
zone. Perhaps you should wait half an hour and then another half hour tomorrow morning.
So s eventually you can take them at a reasonable time.”
“Good plan,” I breathe. “So what shall we do for half an hour?” I blink innocently at
him.“I can think of a few things,” he grins, gray eyes bright. I gaze back impassively as my
insides clench and melt under his knowing look.
“On the other hand, we could talk,” I suggest quietly.
His brow creases.
“I prefer what I have in mind.” He scoops me onto his lap.
“You’d always rather have sex than talk,” I laugh, steadying myself by holding on to
his upper arms.
“True. Especially with you.” He nuzzles my hair and starts a steady trail of kisses from
below my ear to my throat. “Maybe on my piano,” he whispers.
Oh my. My whole body tightens at the thought. Piano. Wow.
“I want to get something straight,” I whisper as my pulse starts to accelerate, and my
inner goddess closes her eyes, reveling in the feel of his lips on me.
He pauses momentarily before continuing his sensual assault.
“Always so eager for information, Miss Steele. What needs straightening out?” he
breathes against my skin at the base of my neck, continuing his soft gentle kisses.
“Us,” I whisper as I close my eyes.
“Hmm. What about us?” He pauses his trail of kisses along my shoulder.
“The contract.”
He lifts his head to gaze down at me, a hint of amusement in his eyes, and sighs. He
strokes his fingertips down my cheek.
“Well, I think the contract is moot, don’t you?” His voice is low and husky, his eyes
soft.
“Moot?”
“Moot.” He smiles. I gape at him quizzically.
“But you were so keen.”
“Well, that was before. Anyway, the Rules aren’t moot, they still stand.” His expres-
sion hardens slightly.
“Before? Before what?”
“Before,”... He pauses, and the wary expression is back, “more.” He shrugs.
“Oh.”
“Besides, we’ve been in the playroom twice now, and you haven’t run screaming for
the hills.”
“Do you expect me to?”
“Nothing you do is expected, Anastasia,” he says dryly.
“So, let me be clear. You just want me to follow the Rules element of the contract all
the time but not the rest of the contract?”
“Except in the playroom. I want you to follow the spirit of the contract in the play-
room, and yes, I want you to follow the rules – all the time. Then I know you’ll be safe,
and I’ll be able to have you anytime I wish.”
“And if I break one of the rules?”
“Then I’ll punish you.”
“But won’t you need my permission?”
“Yes, I will.”
“And if I say no?”He gazes at me for a moment, with a confused expression.
“If you say no, you’ll say no. I’ll have to find a way to persuade you.”
I pull away from him and stand. I need some distance. He frowns as I stare down at
him. He looks puzzled and wary again.
“So the punishment aspect remains.”
“Yes, but only if you break the rules.”
“I’ll need to re-read them,” I say, trying to recall the detail.
“I’ll fetch them for you.” His tone is suddenly businesslike.
Whoa. This has gotten serious so quickly. He rises from the piano and walks lithely to
his study. My scalp prickles. Jeez, I need some tea. The future of our so-called relation-
ship is being discussed at 5:45 in the morning when he’s pre-occupied with something else
– is this wise? I head into the kitchen which is still shrouded in darkness. Where are the
light switches? I find them, flick them on, and pour water into the kettle. My pill! I rum-
mage in my purse that I left on the breakfast bar and find them quickly. One swallow, and
I’m done. By the time I finish, Christian is back, sitting on one of the bar stools, watching
me intently.
“Here you go.” He pushes a typed piece of paper toward me, and I notice that he’s
crossed some things out.
RULES
Obedience:
The Submissive will obey any instructions given by The Dominant immediately without
hesitation or reservation and in an expeditious manner. The Submissive will agree to
any sexual activity deemed fit and pleasurable by the Dominant excepting those activi-
ties which are outlined in hard limits (Appendix A). She will do so eagerly and without
hesitation.
Sleep:
The Submissive will ensure she achieves a minimum of eight seven hours sleep a night
when she is not with The Dominant.
Food:
The Submissive will eat regularly to maintain her health and wellbeing from a prescribed
list of foods (Appendix 4). The Submissive will not snack between meals, with the ex-
ception of fruit.
Clothes:
While with The Dominant, The Submissive will wear clothing only approved by The
Dominant. The Dominant will provide a clothing budget for The Submissive, which The
Submissive shall utilize. The Dominant shall accompany The Submissive to purchase
clothing on an ad hoc basis.
Exercise:
The Dominant shall provide The Submissive with a personal trainer four three times a
week in hour-long sessions at times to be mutually agreed between the personal trainer
and The Submissive. The personal trainer will report to The Dominant on The Submis-
sive’s progress.
Personal Hygiene/Beauty:The Submissive will keep herself clean and shaved and/or waxed at all times. The Sub-
missive will visit a beauty salon of The Dominant’s choosing at times to be decided by
The Dominant, and undergo whatever treatments The Dominant sees fit.
Personal Safety:
The Submissive will not drink to excess, smoke, take recreational drugs or put herself in
any unnecessary danger.
Personal Qualities:
The Submissive will not enter into any sexual relations with anyone other than The
Dominant. The Submissive will conduct herself in a respectful and modest manner at all
times. She must recognize that her behavior is a direct reflection on The Dominant. She
shall be held accountable for any misdeeds, wrongdoings and misbehavior committed
when not in the presence of the Dominant.
Failure to comply with any of the above will result in immediate punishment, the nature
of which shall be determined by The Dominant.
“So the obedience thing still stands?”
“Oh, yes.” He grins.
I shake my head amused, and before I realize it, I roll my eyes at him.
“Did you just roll your eyes at me, Anastasia?” He breathes.
Oh fuck.
“Possibly, depends what your reaction is.”
“Same as always,” he says, shaking his head slightly, his eyes alight with excitement.
I swallow instinctively and a frisson of exhilaration runs through me.
“So... ” Holy shit. What am I going to do?
“Yes?” He licks his lower lip.
“You want to spank me now.”
“Yes. And I will.”
“Oh, really, Mr. Grey?” I challenge, grinning back at him. Two can play this game.
“Are you going to stop me?”
“You’re going to have to catch me first.”
His eyes widen a fraction, and he grins, slowly getting to his feet.
“Oh, really, Miss Steele?”
The breakfast bar is between us. I have never been so grateful for its existence than in
this moment.
“And you’re biting your lip,” he breathes, moving slowly to his left as I move to mine.
“You wouldn’t,” I tease. “After all, you roll your eyes.” I try reasoning with him. He
continues to move toward his left, as do I.
“Yes, but you’ve just raised the bar on the excitement stakes with this game.” His eyes
blaze, and wild anticipation emanates from him.
“I’m quite fast you know.” I try for nonchalance.
“So am I.”
He’s stalking me, in his own kitchen.
“Are you going to come quietly?” he asks.
“Do I ever?”“Miss Steele, what do you mean?” he smirks. “It’ll be worse for you if I have to come
and get you.”
“That’s only if you catch me, Christian. And right now, I have no intention of letting
you catch me.”
“Anastasia, you may fall and hurt yourself. Which will put you in direct contravention
of rule number seven.”
“I have been in danger since I met you, Mr. Grey, rules or no rules.”
“Yes you have.” He pauses, and his brow furrows slightly.
Suddenly, he lunges for me, making me squeal and run for the dining room table. I
manage to escape, putting the table between us. My heart is pounding and adrenaline has
spiked through my body... boy... this is so thrilling. I’m a child again, though that’s not
right. I watch him carefully as he paces deliberately toward me. I inch away.
“You certainly know how to distract a man, Anastasia.”
“We aim to please, Mr. Grey. Distract you from what?”
“Life. The universe.” He waves one of his hands vaguely.
“You did seem very pre-occupied as you were playing.”
He stops and folds his arms, his expression amused.
“We can do this all day, baby, but I will get you, and it will just be worse for you when
I do.”
“No, you won’t.” I must not be over-confident. I repeat this as a mantra. My subcon-
scious has found her Nikes, and she’s on the starting blocks.
“Anyone would think you didn’t want me to catch you.”
“I don’t. That’s the point. I feel about punishment the way you feel about me touching
you.”
His entire demeanor changes in a nanosecond. Gone is playful Christian, and he stands
staring at me as if I’d slapped him. He’s ashen.
“That’s how you feel?” he whispers.
Those four words, and the way he utters them, speaks volumes. Oh no. They tell me so
much more about him and how he feels. They tell me about his fear and loathing. I frown.
No, I don’t feel that bad. No way. Do I?
“No. It doesn’t affect me quite as much as that, but it gives you an idea,” I murmur,
staring anxiously at him.
“Oh,” he says.
Crap. He looks completely and utterly lost, like I’ve pulled the rug from under his feet.
Taking a deep breath, I move round the table until I am standing in front of him, gazing
into his apprehensive eyes.
“You hate it that much?” he breathes, his eyes filled with horror.
“Well... no,” I reassure him. Jeez – that’s how he feels about people touching him?
“No. I feel ambivalent about it. I don’t like it, but I don’t hate it.”
“But last night, in the playroom, you... ” he trails off.
“I do it for you, Christian, because you need it. I don’t. You didn’t hurt me last night.
That was in a different context, and I can rationalize that internally, and I trust you. But
when you want to punish me, I worry that you’ll hurt me.”His gray eyes blaze like a turbulent storm. Time moves, and expands and slips away
before he answers softly.
“I want to hurt you. But not beyond anything that you couldn’t take.”
Fuck!
“Why?”
He runs his hand through his hair, and he shrugs.
“I just need it.” He pauses, gazing at me with anguish, and he closes his eyes and
shakes his head. “I can’t tell you,” he whispers.
“Can’t or won’t?”
“Won’t.”
“So you know why.”
“Yes.”
“But you won’t tell me.”
“If I do, you will run screaming from this room, and you’ll never want to return.” He
stares at me warily. “I can’t risk that, Anastasia.”
“You want me to stay.”
“More than you know. I couldn’t bear to lose you.”
Oh my.
He gazes down at me, and suddenly, he pulls me into his arms and he’s kissing me,
kissing me passionately. It takes me completely by surprise, and I sense his panic and
desperate need in his kiss.
“Don’t leave me. You said you wouldn’t leave me, and you begged me not to leave
you, in your sleep,” he murmurs against my lips.
Oh... my nocturnal confessions.
“I don’t want to go.” And my heart clenches, turning itself inside out.
This is a man in need. His fear is naked and obvious, but he’s lost... somewhere in his
darkness. His eyes wide and bleak and tortured. I can soothe him. Join him briefly in the
darkness and bring him into the light.
“Show me,” I whisper.
“Show you?”
“Show me how much it can hurt.”
“What?”
“Punish me. I want to know how bad it can get.”
Christian steps back away from me, completely confused.
“You would try?”
“Yes. I said I would.” But I have an ulterior motive. If I do this for him, maybe he will
let me touch him.
He blinks at me.
“Ana, you’re so confusing.”
“I’m confused too. I’m trying to work this out. And you and I will know, once and
for all, if I can do this. If I can handle this, then maybe you –” My words fail me, and his
eyes widen again. He knows I am referring to the touch thing. For a moment, he looks
torn, but then a steely resolve settles on his features, and he narrows his eyes, gazing at me
speculatively as if weighing up alternatives.Abruptly, he clasps my arm in a firm grip and turns, leading me out of the great room,
up the stairs, and to the playroom. Pleasure and pain, reward and punishment – his words
from so long ago echo through my mind.
“I’ll show you how bad it can be, and you can make your own mind up.” He pauses by
the door. “Are you ready for this?”
I nod, my mind made up, and I’m vaguely lightheaded, faint as all the blood leaves my
face.
He opens the door, and still grasping my arm, grabs what looks like a belt from the rack
beside the door, then leads me over to the red leather bench in the far corner of the room.
“Bend over the bench,” he murmurs softly.
Okay. I can do this. I bend over the smooth soft leather. He’s left my bathrobe on.
In a quiet part of my brain, I’m vaguely surprised that he hasn’t made me take it off. Holy
fuck this is going to hurt... I know. My subconscious has passed out, and my inner goddess
is endeavoring to look brave.
“We’re here because you said yes, Anastasia. And you ran from me. I am going to hit
you six times, and you will count with me.”
Why the hell doesn’t he just get on with it? He always makes such a meal of punishing
me. I roll my eyes, knowing full well he can’t see me.
He lifts the hem of my bathrobe, and for some reason, this feels more intimate than
being naked. He gently caresses my behind, running his warm hand all over both cheeks
and down to the tops of my thighs.
“I am doing this so that you remember not to run from me, and as exciting as it is, I
never want you to run from me,” he whispers.
And the irony is not lost on me. I was running to avoid this. If he’d opened his arms,
I’d run to him, not away from him.
“And you rolled your eyes at me. You know how I feel about that.” Suddenly, it’s gone
– that nervous edgy fear in his voice. He’s back from wherever he’s been. I hear it in his
tone, in the way he places his fingers on my back, holding me – and the atmosphere in the
room changes.
I close my eyes, bracing myself for the blow. It comes hard, snapping across my back-
side, and the bite of the belt is everything I feared. I cry out involuntarily, and take a huge
gulp of air.
“Count, Anastasia!” he commands.
“One!” I shout at him, and it sounds like an expletive.
He hits me again, and the pain pulses and echoes along the line of the belt. Holy shit...
that smarts.
“Two!” I scream. It feels so good to scream.
His breathing is ragged and harsh. Whereas mine is almost non-existent as I desper-
ately scrabble around my psyche looking for some internal strength. The belt cuts into my
flesh again.
“Three!” Tears spring unwelcome into my eyes. Jeez – this is harder than I thought –
so much harder than the spanking. He’s not holding anything back.
“Four!” I yell as the belt bites me again, and now the tears are streaming down my face.
I don’t want to cry. It angers me that I am crying. He hits me again.“Five.” My voice is more a choked, strangled sob, and in this moment, I think I hate
him. One more, I can do one more. My backside feels as if it’s on fire.
“Six,” I whisper as the blistering pain cuts across me again, and I hear him drop the
belt behind me, and he’s pulling me into his arms, all breathless and compassionate... and
I want none of him.
“Let go... no... ” And I find myself struggling out his grasp, pushing him away. Fight-
ing him.
“Don’t touch me!” I hiss. I straighten and stare at him, and he’s watching me as if I
might bolt, gray eyes wide, bemused. I dash the tears angrily out of my eyes with the backs
of my hands, glaring at him.
“This is what you really like? Me, like this?” I use the sleeve of the bathrobe to wipe
my nose.
He gazes at me warily.
“Well, you are one fucked-up son of a bitch.”
“Ana,” he pleads, shocked.
“Don’t you dare, Ana me! You need to sort your shit out, Grey!” And with that, I turn
stiffly, and I walk out of the playroom, closing the door quietly behind me.
I clasp the door handle behind me and briefly lean back against the door. Where to go?
Do I run? Do I stay? I am so mad, angry scalding tears spill down my cheeks, and I brush
them furiously aside. I just want to curl up. Curl up and recuperate in some way. Heal my
shattered faith. How could I have been so stupid? Of course it hurts.
Tentatively, I rub my backside. Aah! It’s sore. Where to go? Not his room. My room,
or the room that will be mine, no, is mine... was mine. This is why he wanted me to keep
it. He knew I would need distance from him.
I launch myself stiffly in that direction, conscious that Christian may follow me. It is
still dark in the bedroom, dawn only a whisper in the skyline. I climb awkwardly into bed,
careful not to sit on my aching and tender backside. I keep the bathrobe on, wrapping it
around me, and curl up and really let go – sobbing hard into my pillow.
What was I thinking? Why did I let him do that to me? I wanted the dark, to explore
how bad it could be – but it’s too dark for me. I cannot do this. Yet, this is what he does,
this is how he gets his kicks.
What a monumental wake-up call. And to be fair to him, he warned me and warned
me, time and again. He’s not normal. He has needs that I cannot fulfill. I realize that now.
I don’t want him to hit me like that again, ever. I think of the couple of times he has hit
me, and how easy he was on me by comparison. Is that enough for him? I sob harder into
the pillow. I am going to lose him. He won’t want to be with me if I can’t give him this.
Why, why, why have I fallen in love with Fifty Shades? Why? Why can’t I love José, or
Paul Clayton, or someone like me?
Oh, his distraught look as I left. I was so cruel, so shocked by the savagery... will he
forgive me... will I forgive him? My thoughts are all haywire and jumbled, echoing and
bouncing off the inside of my skull. My subconscious is shaking her head sadly, and my
inner goddess is nowhere to be seen. Oh, this is a dark morning of the soul for me. I’m so
alone. I want my Mom. I remember her parting words at the airport,Follow your heart, darling, and please, please – try not to over-think things. Relax and
enjoy. You are so young, sweetheart, you have so much to experience, just let it happen.
You deserve the best of everything.
I did follow my heart, and I have a sore ass and an anguished, broken spirit to show
for it. I have to go. That’s it... I have to leave. He’s no good for me, and I am no good
for him. How can we possibly make this work? And the thought of not seeing him again
practically chokes me... my Fifty Shades.
I hear the door click open. Oh no – he’s here. He puts something down on the bedside
table, and the bed shifts under his weight as he climbs in behind me.
“Hush,” he breathes, and I want to pull away from him, move to the other side of the
bed, but I’m paralyzed. I cannot move and lie stiffly, not yielding at all. “Don’t fight me,
Ana, please,” he whispers. Gently, he pulls me into his arms, burying his nose in my hair,
kissing my neck.
“Don’t hate me,” he breathes softly against my skin, his voice achingly sad. My heart
clenches anew and releases a fresh wave of silent sobbing. He continues to kiss me softly,
tenderly, but I remain aloof and wary.
We lie together like this, neither saying anything for ages. He just holds me, and very
gradually, I relax and stop crying. Dawn comes and goes, and the soft light gets brighter as
morning moves on, and still we lie quietly.
“I bought you some Advil and some arnica cream,” he says after a long while.
I turn very slowly in his arms so I can face him. I am resting my head on his arm. His
eyes are flinty gray and guarded.
I gaze at his beautiful face. He’s giving nothing away, but he keeps his eyes on mine,
hardly blinking. Oh, he is so breathtakingly good-looking. In such a short time, he’s
become so, so dear to me. Reaching up, I caress his cheek and run the tips of my fingers
through his stubble. He closes his eyes and exhales slightly.
“I’m sorry,” I whisper.
He opens his eyes and looks at me puzzled.
“What for?”
“What I said.”
“You didn’t tell me anything I didn’t know.” And his eyes soften with relief. “I am
sorry I hurt you.”
I shrug.
“I asked for it.” And now I know. I swallow. Here goes. I need to say my piece. “I
don’t think I can be everything you want me to be,” I whisper. His eyes widen slightly, and
he blinks, his fearful expression returning.
“You are everything I want you to be.”
What?
“I don’t understand. I’m not obedient, and you can be as sure as hell I’m not going to
let you do that to me again. And that’s what you need, you said so.”
He closes his eyes again, and I can see a myriad of emotions cross his face. When he
reopens them, his expression is bleak. Oh no.
“You’re right. I should let you go. I am no good for you.”My scalp prickles as every single hair follicle on my body stands to attention, and the
world falls away from me, leaving a wide, yawning abyss for me to fall into. Oh no.
“I don’t want to go,” I whisper. Fuck – this is it. Pay or play. Tears swim in my eyes
once more.
“I don’t want you to go either,” he whispers, his voice raw. He reaches up and gently
strokes my cheek and wipes away a falling tear with his thumb. “I’ve come alive since I
met you.” His thumb traces the contours of my lower lip.
“Me too,” I whisper, “I’ve fallen in love with you, Christian.”
His eyes widen again, but this time, with pure, undiluted fear.
“No,” he breathes as if I’ve knocked the wind out of him.
Oh no.
“You can’t love me, Ana. No... that’s wrong.” He’s horrified.
“Wrong? Why’s it wrong?”
“Well, look at you. I can’t make you happy.” His voice is anguished.
“But you do make me happy.” I frown.
“Not at the moment, not doing what I want to do.”
Holy fuck. This really is it. This is what it boils down to – incompatibility - and all
those poor subs come to mind.
“We’ll never get past that, will we?” I whisper, my scalp prickling in fear.
He shakes his head bleakly. I close my eyes. I cannot bear to look at him.
“Well... I’d better go, then,” I murmur, wincing as I sit up.
“No, don’t go.” He sounds panicked.
“There’s no point in me staying.” Suddenly, I feel tired, really dog-tired, and I want to
go now. I climb out of bed, and Christian follows.
“I’m going to get dressed. I’d like some privacy,” I say, my voice flat and empty as I
leave him standing in the bedroom.
Heading downstairs, I glance at the great room, thinking how only hours before I had
rested my head on his shoulder as he played the piano. So much has happened since then.
I have had my eyes opened and glimpsed the extent of his depravity, and I now know he’s
not capable of love – of giving or receiving love. My worst fears have been realized. And
strangely, it’s very liberating.
The pain is such that I refuse to acknowledge it. I feel numb. I have somehow escaped
from my body and am now a casual observer to this unfolding tragedy. I shower quickly
and methodically, thinking only of each second in front of me. Now squeeze body wash
bottle. Put body wash bottle back in rack. Rub cloth on face, on shoulders... on and on, all
simple, mechanical actions, requiring simple mechanical thoughts.
I finish my shower – and as I haven’t washed my hair, I can dry myself quickly. I dress
in the bathroom, taking my jeans and t-shirt out of my small suitcase. My jeans chafe
against my backside, but quite frankly, it’s a pain I welcome as it distracts my mind from
what’s happening to my splintering, shattered heart.
I stoop to shut my suitcase, and the bag holding Christian’s gift catches my eye, a
modeling kit for a Blahnik L23 glider, something for him to build. Tears threaten. Oh no...
happier times, when there was hope of more. I take it out of the case, knowing that I needto give it to him. Quickly, I rip a small piece of paper from my notebook, hastily scribble
a note for him, and leave it on top of the box.
I gaze at myself in the mirror. A pale and haunted ghost stares back at me. I scoop my
hair into a ponytail and ignore how swollen my eyelids are from the crying. My subcon-
scious nods with approval. Even she knows not to be snarky right now. I cannot believe
that my world is crumbling around me into a sterile pile of ashes, all my hopes and dreams
cruelly dashed. No, no don’t think about it. Not now, not yet. Taking a deep breath, I pick
up my case, and after placing the glider kit and my note on his pillow, I head for the great
room.
Christian is on the phone. He’s dressed in black jeans and t-shirt. His feet are bare.
“He said what!” he shouts, making me jump. “Well, he could have told us the fucking
truth. What’s his number, I need to call him... Welch, this is a real fuck-up.” He glances
up and doesn’t take his dark and brooding eyes off me. “Find her,” he snaps and presses
the off switch.
I walk over to the couch and collect my backpack, doing my best to ignore him. I take
the Mac out of it and walk back toward the kitchen, placing it carefully on the breakfast
bar, along with the BlackBerry and the car key. When I turn to face him, he’s staring at me,
stupefied with horror.
“I need the money that Taylor got for my Beetle.” My voice is clear and calm, devoid
of emotion... extraordinary.
“Ana, I don’t want those things, they’re yours,” he says in disbelief. “Please, take
them.”
“No Christian – I only accepted them under sufferance – and I don’t want them any-
more.”
“Ana, be reasonable,” he scolds me, even now.
“I don’t want anything that will remind me of you. I just need the money that Taylor
got for my car.” My voice is quite monotone.
He gasps.
“Are you really trying to wound me?”
“No.” I frown staring at him. Of course not... I love you. “I’m not. I’m trying to
protect myself,” I whisper. Because you don’t want me the way I want you.
“Please, Ana, take that stuff.”
“Christian, I don’t want to fight – I just need the money.”He narrows his eyes, but I’m no longer intimidated by him. Well, only a little. I gaze
impassively back, not blinking or backing down.
“Will you take a check?” he says acidly.
“Yes. I think you’re good for it.”
He doesn’t smile, he just turns on his heel and stalks into his study. I take a last linger-
ing look around his apartment – at the art on the walls – all abstracts, serene, cool... cold,
even. Fitting, I think absently. My eyes stray to the piano. Jeez – if I’d kept my mouth
shut, we’d have made love on the piano. No, fucked, we would have fucked on the piano.
Well, I would have made love. The thought lies heavy and sad in my mind. He has never
made love to me, has he? It’s always been fucking to him.
Christian returns and hands me an envelope.
“Taylor got a good price. It’s a classic car. You can ask him. He’ll take you home.”
He nods in the direction over my shoulder. I turn, and Taylor is standing in the doorway,
wearing his suit, as impeccable as ever.
“That’s fine, I can get myself home, thank you.”
I turn to stare at Christian, and I see the barely-contained fury in his eyes.
“Are you going to defy me at every turn?”
“Why change a habit of a lifetime?” I give him a small, apologetic shrug.
He closes his eyes in frustration and runs his hand through his hair.
“Please, Ana, let Taylor take you home.”
“I’ll get the car, Miss Steele,” Taylor announces authoritatively. Christian nods at him,
and when I glance around, Taylor has gone.
I turn back to face Christian. We are four feet apart. He steps forward, and instinc-
tively I step back. He stops, and the anguish in his expression is palpable, his gray eyes
burning.
“I don’t want you to go,” he murmurs, his voice full of longing.
“I can’t stay. I know what I want and you can’t give it to me, and I can’t give you what
you need.”
He takes another step forward, and I hold up my hands.
“Don’t, please.” I recoil from him. There’s no way I can tolerate his touch now, it will
slay me. “I can’t do this.”
Grabbing my suitcase and my backpack, I head for the foyer. He follows me, keeping
a careful distance. He presses the elevator button, and the doors open. I climb in.
“Goodbye, Christian,” I murmur.
“Ana, goodbye,” he says softly, and he looks utterly, utterly broken, a man in agonizing
pain, reflecting how I feel inside. I tear my gaze away from him before I change my mind
and try to comfort him.
The elevator doors close, and it whisks me down to the bowels of the basement and to
my own personal hell.
Taylor holds the door open for me, and I climb into the back of the car. I avoid eye contact.
Embarrassment and shame washes over me. I’m a complete failure. I had hoped to dragmy Fifty Shades into the light, but it’s proved a task beyond my meager abilities. Des-
perately, I try to keep my emotions banked and at bay. As we head out onto 4th Avenue, I
stare blankly out of the window, and the enormity of what I’ve done slowly washes over
me. Shit – I’ve left him. The only man I’ve ever loved. The only man I’ve ever slept with.
I gasp, and the levees burst. Tears course unbidden and unwelcome down my cheeks, and
I wipe them away hurriedly with my fingers, scrambling in my bag for my sunglasses. As
we pause at some traffic lights, Taylor holds out a linen handkerchief for me. He says noth-
ing and doesn’t look in my direction, and I take it with gratitude.
“Thank you,” I mutter, and this small discreet act of kindness is my undoing. I sit back
in the luxurious leather seats and weep.
The apartment is achingly empty and unfamiliar. I have not lived here long enough for it
to feel like home. I head straight to my room, and there, hanging limply at the end of my
bed, is a very sad, deflated helicopter balloon. Charlie Tango, looking and feeling exactly
like me. I grab it angrily off my bedrail, snapping the tie, and hug it to me. Oh – what
have I done?
I fall onto my bed, shoes and all, and howl. The pain is indescribable... physical,
mental... metaphysical... it is everywhere, seeping into the marrow of my bones. Grief.
This is grief – and I’ve brought it on myself. Deep down, a nasty, unbidden thought comes
from my inner goddess, her lip curled in a snarl... the physical pain from the bite of a belt
is nothing, nothing compared to this devastation. I curl up, desperately clutching the flat
foil balloon and Taylor’s handkerchief, and surrender myself to my grief.
End of Part One