First published by The Writer’s Coffee Shop, 2011
Copyright © E L James, 2011
The right of E L James to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by her under the
Copyright Amendment (Moral Rights) Act 2000
This work is copyright. Apart from any use as permitted under the Copyright Act 1968, no part may be
reproduced, copied, scanned, stored in a retrieval system, recorded or transmitted, in any form or by
any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are either a product of the
author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual people living or dead, events
or locales is entirely coincidental.
The Writer’s Coffee Shop
(Australia) PO Box 2013 Hornsby Westfield NSW 1635
(USA) PO Box 2116 Waxahachie TX 75168
Paperback ISBN-978-1-61213-058-3
E-book ISBN-978-1-61213-059-0
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the US Congress Library.
Cover image by: E. Spek
Cover design by: Jennifer McGuire
www.thewriterscoffeeshop.com/ejamesE L James is a TV executive, wife, and mother of two, based in West London. Since early childhood,
she dreamt of writing stories that readers would fall in love with, but put those dreams on hold to
focus on her family and her career. She finally plucked up the courage to put pen to paper with her
first novel, Fifty Shades of Grey.
E L James is currently working on the sequel to Fifty Shades Darker and a new romantic thriller with
a supernatural twist.I owe a huge debt of gratitude to Sarah, Kay, and Jada. Thank you for all that you have done for me.
Also HUGE thanks to Kathleen and Kristi who stepped into the breach and sorted stuff out.
Thank you too to Niall, my husband, my lover, and my best friend (most of the time).
And a big shout out to all the wonderful, wonderful women from all over the world whom I have had
the pleasure of meeting since I started all this, and whom I now consider friends, including: Ale, Alex,
Amy, Andrea, Angela, Azucena, Babs, Bee, Belinda, Betsy, Brandy, Britt, Caroline, Catherine, Dawn,
Gwen, Hannah, Janet, Jen, Jenn, Jill, Kathy, Katie, Kellie, Kelly, Liz, Mandy, Margaret, Natalia,
Nicole, Nora, Olga, Pam, Pauline, Raina, Raizie, Rajka, Rhian, Ruth, Steph, Susi, Tasha, Taylor and
Una. And also to the many, many talented, funny, warm women (and men) I have met online. You
know who you are.
Thanks to Morgan and Jenn for all things Heathman.
And finally, thank you to Janine, my editor. You rock. That is all.He’s come back. Mommy’s asleep or she’s sick again.
I hide and curl up small under the table in the kitchen. Through my fingers I can see Mommy.
She is asleep on the couch. Her hand is on the sticky green rug, and he’s wearing his big boots with the
shiny buckle and standing over Mommy shouting.
He hits Mommy with a belt. Get up! Get up! You are one fucked-up bitch. You are one fucked-up
bitch. You are one fucked-up bitch. You are one fucked-up bitch. You are one fucked-up bitch. You are
one fucked-up bitch.
Mommy makes a sobbing noise. Stop. Please stop. Mommy doesn’t scream. Mommy curls up
small.
I have my fingers in my ears, and I close my eyes. The sound stops.
He turns and I can see his boots as he stomps into the kitchen. He still has the belt. He is trying to
find me.
He stoops down and grins. He smells nasty. Of cigarettes and drink. There you are, you little shit.
A chilling wail wakes him. Christ! He’s drenched in sweat and his heart is pounding.What the fuck?
He sits bolt upright in bed and puts his head in hands.Fuck. They’re back. The noise was me.He takes a
deep steadying breath, trying to rid his mind and nostrils of the smell of cheap bourbon and stale
Camel cigarettes.I have survived Day Three Post-Christian, and my first day at work. It has been a welcome distraction.
The time has flown by in a haze of new faces, work to do, and Mr. Jack Hyde. Mr. Jack Hyde... he
smiles down at me, his blue eyes twinkling, as he leans against my desk.
“Excellent work, Ana. I think we’re going to make a great team.”
Somehow, I manage to curl my lips upward in a semblance of a smile.
“I’ll be off, if that’s okay with you,” I murmur.
“Of course, it’s five thirty. I’ll see you tomorrow.”
“Goodnight, Jack.”
“Goodnight, Ana.”
Collecting my bag, I shrug on my jacket and head for the door. Out in the early evening air of
Seattle, I take a deep breath. It doesn’t begin to fill the void in my chest, a void that’s been present
since Saturday morning, a painful hollow reminder of my loss. I walk toward the bus stop with my
head down, staring at my feet and contemplating being without my beloved Wanda, my old Beetle... or
the Audi.
I shut the door on that thought immediately. No. Don’t think about him. Of course, I can afford a
car—a nice, new car. I suspect he has been overgenerous in his payment, and the thought leaves a
bitter taste in my mouth, but I dismiss it and try to keep my mind as numb and as blank as possible. I
can’t think about him. I don’t want to start crying again—not out on the street.
The apartment is empty. I miss Kate, and I imagine her lying on a beach in Barbados sipping a
cool cocktail. I turn on the flat-screen television so there’s noise to fill the vacuum and provide some
semblance of company, but I don’t listen or watch. I sit and stare blankly at the brick wall. I am numb.
I feel nothing but the pain. How long must I endure this?
The door buzzer startles me from my anguish, and my heart skips a beat. Who could that be? I
press the intercom.
“Delivery for Ms. Steele.” A bored, disembodied voice answers, and disappointment crashes
through me. I listlessly make my way downstairs and find a young man noisily chewing gum, holding
a large cardboard box, and leaning against the front door. I sign for the package and take it upstairs.
The box is huge and surprisingly light. Inside are two dozen long-stemmed, white roses and a card.Congratulations on your first day at work.
I hope it went well.
And thank you for the glider. That was very thoughtful.
It has pride of place on my desk.
Christian
I stare at the typed card, the hollow in my chest expanding. No doubt, his assistant sent this.
Christian probably had very little to do with it. It’s too painful to think about. I examine the roses—
they are beautiful, and I can’t bring myself to throw them in the trash. Dutifully, I make my way into
the kitchen to hunt down a vase.
And so a pattern develops: wake, work, cry, sleep. Well, try to sleep. I can’t even escape him in my
dreams. Gray burning eyes, his lost look, his hair burnished and bright all haunt me. And the music...
so much music—I cannot bear to hear any music. I am careful to avoid it at all costs. Even the jingles
in commercials make me shudder.
I have spoken to no one, not even my mother or Ray. I don’t have the capacity for idle talk now.
No, I want none of it. I have become my own island state. A ravaged, war-torn land where nothing
grows and the horizons are bleak. Yes, that’s me. I can interact impersonally at work, but that’s it. If I
talk to Mom, I know I will break even further—and I have nothing left to break.
I am finding it difficult to eat. By Wednesday lunchtime, I manage a cup of yogurt, and it’s the first
thing I’ve eaten since Friday. I am surviving on a newfound tolerance for lattes and Diet Coke. It’s the
caffeine that keeps me going, but it’s making me anxious.
Jack has started to hover over me, irritating me, asking me personal questions. What does he
want? I’m polite, but I need to keep him at arm’s length.
I sit and begin trawling through a pile of correspondence addressed to him, and I’m pleased with
the distraction of menial work. My e-mail pings, and I quickly check to see who it’s from.
Holy shit. An e-mail from Christian. Oh no, not here... not at work.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:05
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Anastasia
Forgive this intrusion at work. I hope that it’s going well. Did you get my flowers?
I note that tomorrow is the gallery opening for your friend’s show, and I’m sure you’ve not had time to purchase a car, and it’s a long drive. I would be more than happy to take you—should you wish.
Let me know.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.Tears swim in my eyes. I hastily leave my desk and bolt to the restroom to escape into one of the
stalls. José’s show. Crap. I’d forgotten all about it, and I promised him I’d go. Shit, Christian is right;
how am I going to get there?
I clutch my forehead. Why hasn’t José phoned? Come to think of it—why hasn’t anyone phoned?
I’ve been so absentminded, I haven’t noticed that my cell phone has been silent.
Shit! I am such an idiot! I still have it on divert to the Blackberry. Holy hell. Christian’s been
getting my calls—unless he’s just thrown the Blackberry away. How did he get my e-mail address?
He knows my shoe size, an e-mail address is hardly going to present him with many problems.
Can I see him again? Could I bear it? Do I want to see him? I close my eyes and tilt my head back
as grief and longing lance through me. Of course I do.
Perhaps, perhaps I can tell him I’ve changed my mind... No, no, no. I cannot be with someone
who takes pleasure in inflicting pain on me, someone who can’t love me.
Torturous memories flash through my mind—the gliding, holding hands, kissing, the bathtub, his
gentleness, his humor, and his dark, brooding, sexy stare. I miss him. It’s been five days, five days of
agony that has felt like an eternity.
I wrap my arms around my body, hugging myself tightly, holding myself together. I miss him. I
really miss him... I love him. Simple.
I cry myself to sleep at night, wishing I hadn’t walked out, wishing that he could be different,
wishing that we were together. How long will this hideous overwhelming feeling last? I am in
purgatory.
Anastasia Steele, you are at work! I must be strong, but I want to go to José’s show, and deep
down, the masochist in me wants to see Christian. Taking a deep breath, I head back to my desk.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:25
To: Christian Grey
Hi Christian
Thank you for the flowers; they are lovely.
Yes, I would appreciate a lift.
Thank you.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
Checking my phone, I find that it is still switched to divert. Jack is in a meeting, so I quickly call José.
“Hi, José. It’s Ana.”
“Hello, stranger.” His tone is so warm and welcoming it’s almost enough to push me over the
edge again.
“I can’t talk long. What time should I be there tomorrow for your show?”
“You’re still coming?” He sounds excited.
“Yes, of course.” I smile my first genuine smile in five days as I picture his broad grin.
“Seven thirty.”
“See you then. Good-bye, José.”“Bye, Ana.”
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:27
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Anastasia
What time shall I collect you?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:32
To: Christian Grey
José’s show starts at 7:30. What time would you suggest?
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:34
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Anastasia
Portland is some distance away. I shall collect you at 5:45.
I look forward to seeing you.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Tomorrow
Date: June 8, 2011 14:38
To: Christian Grey
See you then.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIPOh my. I’m going to see Christian, and for the first time in five days, my spirits lift a fraction and I
allow myself to wonder how he’s been.
Has he missed me? Probably not like I’ve missed him. Has he found a new submissive from
wherever they come from? The thought is so painful that I dismiss it immediately. I look at the pile of
correspondence I need to sort for Jack and tackle it as I try to push Christian out of my mind once
more.
That night in bed, I toss and turn, trying to sleep. It is the first time in a while I haven’t cried
myself to sleep.
In my mind’s eye, I visualize Christian’s face the last time I saw him as I left his apartment. His
tortured expression haunts me. I remember he didn’t want me to go, which was odd. Why would I stay
when things had reached such an impasse? We were each skirting around our own issues—my fear of
punishment, his fear of... what? Love?
Turning on my side, I hug my pillow, filled with an overwhelming sadness. He thinks he doesn’t
deserve to be loved. Why does he feel that way? Is it something to do with his upbringing? His birth
mom, the crack whore? My thoughts plague me into the early hours until eventually I fall into a fitful,
exhausted sleep.
The day drags and drags and Jack is unusually attentive. I suspect it’s Kate’s plum dress and the black
high-heeled boots I’ve stolen from her closet, but I don’t dwell on the thought. I resolve to go clothes
shopping with my first paycheck. The dress is looser on me than it was, but I pretend not to notice.
Finally, it’s five thirty, and I collect my jacket and purse, trying to quell my nerves. I’m going to
see him!
“Do you have a date tonight?” Jack asks as he strolls past my desk on his way out.
“Yes. No. Not really.”
He cocks an eyebrow at me, his interest clearly piqued. “Boyfriend?”
I flush. “No, a friend. An ex-boyfriend.”
“Maybe tomorrow you’d like to come for a drink after work. You’ve had a stellar first week, Ana.
We should celebrate.” He smiles and some unknown emotion flits across his face, making me uneasy.
Putting his hands in his pockets, he saunters through the double doors. I frown at his retreating
back. Drinks with the boss, is that a good idea?
I shake my head. I have an evening of Christian Grey to get through first. How am I going to do
this? I hurry into the restroom to make last-minute adjustments.
In the large mirror on the wall, I take a long, hard look at my face. I am my usual pale self, dark
circles round my too-large eyes. I look gaunt, haunted.
Jeez, I wish I knew how to use makeup. I apply some mascara and eyeliner and pinch my cheeks,
hoping to bring some color their way. Tidying my hair so that it hangs artfully down my back, I take a
deep breath. This will have to do.
Nervously I walk through the foyer with a smile and a wave to Claire at reception. I think she and
I could become friends. Jack is talking to Elizabeth as I head for the doors. Smiling broadly, he hurries
over to open them for me.
“After you, Ana,” he murmurs.
“Thank you.” I smile, embarrassed.
Outside on the curb, Taylor is waiting. He opens the rear door of the car. I glance hesitantly at
Jack who has followed me out. He’s looking toward the Audi SUV in dismay.I turn and climb into the back, and there he sits—Christian Grey—wearing his gray suit, no tie,
his white shirt open at the collar. His gray eyes are glowing.
My mouth dries. He looks glorious except he’s scowling at me. Oh no!
“When did you last eat?” he snaps as Taylor closes the door behind me.
Crap. “Hello, Christian. Yes, it’s nice to see you, too.”
“I don’t want your smart mouth now. Answer me.” His eyes blaze.
Holy shit. “Um... I had a yogurt at lunchtime. Oh—and a banana.”
“When did you last have a proper meal?” he asks acidly.
Taylor slips into the driver’s seat, starts the car, and pulls out into the traffic.
I glance up and Jack is waving at me, though how he can see me through the dark glass, I don’t
know. I wave back.
“Who’s that?” Christian snaps.
“My boss.” I peek up at the beautiful man beside me, and his mouth is pressed into a hard line.
“Well? Your last meal?”
“Christian, that really is none of your concern,” I murmur, feeling extraordinarily brave.
“Whatever you do concerns me. Tell me.”
No, it doesn’t. I groan in frustration, rolling my eyes heavenward, and Christian narrows his eyes.
And for the first time in a long time, I want to laugh. I try hard to stifle the giggle that threatens to
bubble up. Christian’s face softens as I struggle to keep a straight face, and I see a trace of a smile kiss
his beautifully sculptured lips.
“Well?” he asks, his voice softer.
“Pasta alla vongole, last Friday,” I whisper.
He closes his eyes as fury and possibly regret, sweeps across his face. “I see,” he says, his voice
expressionless. “You look like you’ve lost at least five pounds, possibly more since then. Please eat,
Anastasia,” he scolds.
I stare down at the knotted fingers in my lap. Why does he always make me feel like an errant
child?
He shifts and turns toward me. “How are you?” he asks, his voice still soft.
Well, I’m shit really... I swallow. “If I told you I was fine, I’d be lying.”
He inhales sharply. “Me, too,” he murmurs and reaches over and clasps my hand. “I miss you,”
he adds.
Oh no. Skin against skin.
“Christian, I—”
“Ana, please. We need to talk.”
I’m going to cry. No. “Christian, I... please... I’ve cried so much,” I whisper, trying to keep my
emotions in check
“Oh, baby, no.” He tugs my hand, and before I know it I’m on his lap. He has his arms around me,
and his nose is in my hair. “I’ve missed you so much, Anastasia,” he breathes.
I want to struggle out of his hold, to maintain some distance, but his arms are wrapped around
me. He’s pressing me to his chest. I melt. Oh, this is where I want to be.
I rest my head against him, and he kisses my hair repeatedly. This is home. He smells of linen,
fabric softener, body wash, and my favorite smell—Christian. For a moment, I allow myself the
illusion that all will be well, and it soothes my ravaged soul.
A few minutes later Taylor pulls to a stop at the curb, even though we’re still in the city.
“Come”—Christian shifts me off his lap—“we’re here.”
What?“Helipad—on the top of this building.” Christian glances toward the building by way of
explanation.
Of course. Charlie Tango. Taylor opens the door and I slide out. He gives me a warm, avuncular
smile that makes me feel safe. I smile back.
“I should give you back your handkerchief.”
“Keep it, Miss Steele, with my best wishes.”
I flush as Christian comes around the car and takes my hand. He looks quizzically at Taylor who
stares impassively back at him, revealing nothing.
“Nine?” Christian says to him.
“Yes, sir.”
Christian nods as he turns and leads me through the double doors into the grandiose foyer. I revel
in the feel of his large hand and his long, skilled fingers curled around mine. I feel the familiar pull—I
am drawn, Icarus to his sun. I have been burned already, and yet here I am again.
Reaching the elevators, he presses the call button. I peek up at him, and he’s wearing his
enigmatic half smile. As the doors open, he releases my hand and ushers me in.
The doors close and I risk a second peek. He glances down at me, gray eyes alive, and it’s there in
the air between us, that electricity. It’s palpable. I can almost taste it, pulsing between us, drawing us
together.
“Oh my,” I gasp as I bask briefly in the intensity of this visceral, primal attraction.
“I feel it, too,” he says, his eyes clouded and intense.
Desire pools dark and deadly in my groin. He clasps my hand and grazes my knuckles with his
thumb, and all my muscles clench tightly, deliciously, deep inside me.
Holy cow. How can he still do this to me?
“Please don’t bite your lip, Anastasia,” he whispers.
I gaze up at him, releasing my lip. I want him. Here, now, in the elevator. How could I not?
“You know what it does to me,” he murmurs.
Oh, I still affect him. My inner goddess stirs from her five-day sulk.
Abruptly the doors open, breaking the spell, and we’re on the roof. It’s windy, and despite my
black jacket, I’m cold. Christian puts his arm around me, pulling me into his side, and we hurry across
to where Charlie Tango stands in the center of the helipad with its rotor blades slowly spinning.
A tall, blond, square-jawed man in a dark suit leaps out and, ducking low, runs toward us.
Shaking hands with Christian, he shouts above the noise of the rotors.
“Ready to go, sir. She’s all yours!”
“All checks done?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You’ll collect her around eight thirty?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Taylor’s waiting for you out front.”
“Thank you, Mr. Grey. Safe flight to Portland. Ma’am.” He salutes me. Without releasing me,
Christian nods, ducks down, and leads me to the helicopter door.
Once inside he buckles me firmly into my harness, cinching the straps tight. He gives me a
knowing look and his secret smile.
“This should keep you in your place,” he murmurs. “I must say I do like this harness on you.
Don’t touch anything.”
I flush a deep crimson, and he runs his index finger down my cheek before handing me the
headphones. I’d like to touch you, too, but you won’t let me. I scowl at him. Besides, he’s pulled the
straps so tight I can barely move.He sits in his seat and buckles himself in, then starts running through all his preflight checks.
He’s just so competent. It’s very alluring. He puts on his headphones and flips a switch and the rotors
speed up, deafening me.
Turning, he gazes at me. “Ready, baby?” His voice echoes through the headphones.
“Yes.”
He grins his boyish grin. Wow—I’ve not seen it for so long.
“Sea-Tac tower, this is Charlie Tango—Tango Echo Hotel, cleared for takeoff to Portland via
PDX. Please confirm, over.”
The disembodied voice of the air traffic controller answers, issuing instructions.
“Roger, tower, Charlie Tango set, over and out.” Christian flips two switches, grasps the stick,
and the helicopter rises slowly and smoothly into the evening sky.
Seattle and my stomach drop away from us, and there’s so much to see.
“We’ve chased the dawn, Anastasia, now the dusk,” his voice comes through on the headphones. I
turn to gape at him in surprise.
What does this mean? How is it that he can say the most romantic things? He smiles, and I can’t
help but smile shyly back at him.
“As well as the evening sun, there’s more to see this time,” he says.
The last time we flew to Seattle it was dark, but this evening the view is spectacular, literally out
of this world. We’re up among the tallest buildings, going higher and higher.
“Escala’s over there.” He points toward the building. “Boeing there, and you can just see the
Space Needle.”
I crane my head. “I’ve never been.”
“I’ll take you—we can eat there.”
What? “Christian, we broke up.”
“I know. I can still take you there and feed you.” He glares at me.
I shake my head and flush before taking a less confrontational approach. “It’s very beautiful up
here, thank you.”
“Impressive, isn’t it?”
“Impressive that you can do this.”
“Flattery from you, Miss Steele? But I’m a man of many talents.”
“I’m fully aware of that, Mr. Grey.”
He turns and smirks at me, and for the first time in five days, I relax a little. Perhaps this won’t
be so bad.
“How’s the new job?”
“Good, thank you. Interesting.”
“What’s your boss like?”
“Oh, he’s okay.” How can I tell Christian that Jack makes me uncomfortable? Christian turns and
gazes at me.
“What’s wrong?” he asks.
“Aside from the obvious, nothing.”
“The obvious?”
“Oh, Christian, you really are very obtuse sometimes.”
“Obtuse? Me? I’m not sure I appreciate your tone, Miss Steele.”
“Well, don’t then.”
His lips twitch into a smile. “I have missed your smart mouth.”
I gasp and I want to shout, I’ve missed you—all of you—not just your mouth! But I keep quiet and
gaze out the glass fishbowl that is Charlie Tango’s windshield as we continue south. The dusk is to ourright, the sun low on the horizon—large, blazing fiery orange—and I am Icarus again, flying far too
close.
The dusk has followed us from Seattle, and the sky is awash with opal, pinks, and aquamarines woven
seamlessly together as only Mother Nature knows how. It’s a clear, crisp evening, and the lights of
Portland twinkle and wink, welcoming us as Christian sets the helicopter down on the helipad. We are
on top of the strange brown brick building in Portland we left less than three weeks ago.
Jeez, it’s been hardly any time at all. Yet I feel like I’ve known Christian for a lifetime. He
powers down Charlie Tango, flipping various switches so the rotors stop, and eventually all I hear is
my own breathing through the headphones. Hmm. Briefly it reminds me of the Thomas Tallis
experience. I blanch. I so don’t want to go there right now.
Christian unbuckles his harness and leans across to undo mine.
“Good trip, Miss Steele?” he asks, his voice mild, his gray eyes glowing.
“Yes, thank you, Mr. Grey,” I reply politely.
“Well, let’s go see the boy’s photos.” He holds his hand out to me and taking it, I climb out of
Charlie Tango.
A gray-haired man with a beard walks over to meet us, smiling broadly, and I recognize him as
the old-timer from the last time we were here.
“Joe.” Christian smiles and releases my hand to shake Joe’s warmly.
“Keep her safe for Stephan. He’ll be along around eight or nine.”
“Will do, Mr. Grey. Ma’am,” he says, nodding at me. “Your car’s waiting downstairs, sir. Oh,
and the elevator’s out of order; you’ll need to use the stairs.”
“Thank you, Joe.”
Christian takes my hand, and we head to the emergency stairs.
“Good thing for you this is only three floors, in those heels,” he mutters to me in disapproval.
No kidding.
“Don’t you like the boots?”
“I like them very much, Anastasia.” His gaze darkens and I think he might say something else,
but he stops. “Come. We’ll take it slow. I don’t want you falling and breaking your neck.”
We sit in silence as our driver takes us to the gallery. My anxiety has returned full force, and I realize
that our time in Charlie Tango has been the eye of the storm. Christian is quiet and brooding...
apprehensive even; our lighter mood from earlier has dissipated. There’s so much I want to say, but
this journey is too short. Christian stares pensively out the window.
“José is just a friend,” I murmur.
Christian turns and gazes at me, his eyes dark and guarded, giving nothing away. His mouth—oh,
his mouth is distracting, and unbidden. I remember it on me—everywhere. My skin heats. He shifts in
his seat and frowns.
“Those beautiful eyes look too large in your face, Anastasia. Please tell me you’ll eat.”
“Yes, Christian, I’ll eat,” I answer automatically, a platitude.
“I mean it.”
“Do you now?” I cannot keep the disdain out of my voice. Honestly, the audacity of this man—this man who has put me through hell over the last few days. No, that’s wrong. I’ve put myself
through hell. No. It’s him. I shake my head, confused.
“I don’t want to fight with you, Anastasia. I want you back, and I want you healthy,” he says
softly.
What? What does that mean? “But nothing’s changed.” You’re still fifty shades.
“Let’s talk on the way back. We’re here.”
The car pulls up in front of the gallery, and Christian climbs out, leaving me speechless. He
opens the car door for me, and I clamber out.
“Why do you do that?” My voice is louder than I expected.
“Do what?” Christian is taken aback.
“Say something like that and then just stop.”
“Anastasia, we’re here. Where you want to be. Let’s do this and then talk. I don’t particularly
want a scene in the street.”
I flush and glance around. He’s right. It’s too public. I press my lips together as he glares down at
me.
“Okay,” I mutter sulkily. Taking my hand, he leads me into the building.
We are in a converted warehouse—brick walls, dark wood floors, white ceilings, and white pipe
work. It’s airy and modern, and there are several people wandering across the gallery floor, sipping
wine and admiring José’s work. For a moment, my troubles melt away as I grasp that José has realized
his dream. Way to go, José!
“Good evening and welcome to José Rodriguez’s show.” A young woman dressed in black with
very short brown hair, bright red lipstick, and large hooped earrings greets us. She glances briefly at
me, then much longer than is strictly necessary at Christian, then turns back to me, blinking as she
blushes.
My brow creases. He’s mine —or was. I try hard not to scowl at her. As her eyes regain their
focus, she blinks again.
“Oh, it’s you, Ana. We’ll want your take on all this, too.” Grinning, she hands me a brochure and
directs me to a table laden with drinks and snacks.
How does she know my name?
“You know her?” Christian frowns.
I shake my head, equally puzzled.
He shrugs, distracted. “What would you like to drink?”
“I’ll have a glass of white wine, thank you.”
His brow furrows, but he holds his tongue and heads for the open bar.
“Ana!”
José comes barreling through a throng of people.
Holy cow! He’s wearing a suit. He looks good and he’s beaming at me. He enfolds me in his
arms, hugging me hard. And it’s all I can do not to burst into tears. My friend, my only friend while
Kate is away. Tears pool in my eyes.
“Ana, I’m so glad you made it,” he whispers in my ear, then pauses and abruptly holds me at
arm’s length, staring at me.
“What?”
“Hey are you okay? You look, well, odd. Dios mio, have you lost weight?”
I blink back my tears. “José, I’m fine. I’m just so happy for you.” Crap—not him, too.
“Congratulations on the show.” My voice wavers as I see his concern etched on his oh-so-familiar
face, but I have to hold myself together.“How did you get here?” he asks.
“Christian brought me,” I say, suddenly apprehensive.
“Oh.” José’s face falls and he releases me. “Where is he?” His expression darkens.
“Over there, fetching drinks.” I nod in Christian’s direction and see he’s exchanging pleasantries
with someone waiting in line. Christian glances up when I look his way and our eyes lock. And in that
brief moment, I’m paralyzed, staring at the impossibly handsome man who gazes at me with some
unfathomable emotion. His gaze hot, burning into me, and we’re lost for a moment staring at each
other.
Holy cow... This beautiful man wants me back, and deep down inside me sweet joy slowly unfurls
like a morning glory in the early dawn.
“Ana!” José distracts me, and I’m dragged back to the here and now. “I am so glad you came—
listen, I should warn you—”
Suddenly, Miss Very Short Hair and Red Lipstick cuts him off. “José, the journalist from the
Portland Printz is here to see you. Come on.” She gives me a polite smile.
“How cool is this? The fame.” He grins, and I can’t help but grin back—he’s so happy. “Catch
you later, Ana.” He kisses my cheek, and I watch him stroll over to a young woman standing by a tall
lanky photographer.
José’s photographs are everywhere, and in some cases, blown up onto huge canvases. There are
both monochromes and colors. There’s an ethereal beauty to many of the landscapes. In one taken out
near the lake at Vancouver, it’s early evening and pink clouds are reflected in the stillness of the
water. Briefly, I’m transported by the tranquility and the peace. It’s stunning.
Christian joins me, and I take a deep breath and swallow, trying to recover some of my earlier
equilibrium. He hands me my glass of white wine.
“Does it come up to scratch?” My voice sounds more normal.
He looks quizzically at me.
“The wine.”
“No. Rarely does at these kinds of events. The boy’s quite talented, isn’t he?” Christian is
admiring the lake photo.
“Why else do you think I asked him to take your portrait?” I can’t help the pride in my voice. His
eyes glide impassively from the photograph to me.
“Christian Grey?” The photographer from the Portland Printz approaches Christian. “Can I have a
picture, sir?”
“Sure.” Christian hides his scowl. I step back, but he grabs my hand and pulls me to his side. The
photographer looks at both of us and can’t hide his surprise.
“Mr. Grey, thank you.” He snaps a couple of photos. “Miss...?” he asks.
“Steele,” I reply.
“Thank you, Miss Steele.” He scurries off.
“I looked for pictures of you with dates on the Internet. There aren’t any. That’s why Kate
thought you were gay.”
Christian’s mouth twitches with a smile. “That explains your inappropriate question. No, I don’t
do dates, Anastasia—only with you. But you know that.” His eyes burn with sincerity.
“So you never took your”—I glance around nervously to check no one can overhear us—“subs
out?”
“Sometimes. Not on dates. Shopping, you know.” He shrugs, his eyes not leaving mine.
Oh, so just in the playroom—his Red Room of Pain and his apartment. I don’t know what to feel
about that.
“Just you, Anastasia,” he whispers.I blush and stare down at my fingers. In his own way, he does care about me.
“Your friend here seems more of a landscape man, not portraits. Let’s look round.” He holds his
hand out to me, and I take it.
We wander past a few more prints, and I notice a couple nodding at me, smiling broadly as if
they know me. It must be because I’m with Christian, but one young man is blatantly staring. Odd.
We turn the corner, and I can see why I’ve been getting strange looks. Hanging on the far wall are
seven huge portraits—of me.
I stare blankly at them, stupefied, the blood draining from my face. Me: pouting, laughing,
scowling, serious, amused. All in super close up, all in black and white.
Holy crap! I remember José messing with the camera on a couple of occasions when he was
visiting and when I’d been out with him as driver and photographer’s assistant. He took snapshots, or
so I thought. Not these invasive candids.
I glance up at Christian, who is staring, transfixed, at each of the pictures in turn.
“Seems I’m not the only one,” he mutters cryptically, his mouth settling into a hard line.
I think he’s angry. Oh no.
“Excuse me,” he says, pinning me with his bright gray gaze for a moment. He turns and heads to
the reception desk.
What’s his problem now? I watch mesmerized as he talks animatedly with Miss Very Short Hair
and Red Lipstick. He fishes out his wallet and produces his credit card.
Shit. He must have bought one of them.
“Hey. You’re the muse. These photographs are terrific.” A young man with a shock of bright
blond hair startles me. I feel a hand at my elbow and Christian is back.
“You’re a lucky guy.” Blond Shock smirks at Christian, who gives him a cold stare.
“That I am,” he mutters darkly, as he pulls me over to one side.
“Did you just buy one of these?”
“One of these?” he snorts, not taking his eyes off them.
“You bought more than one?”
He rolls his eyes. “I bought them all, Anastasia. I don’t want some stranger ogling you in the
privacy of their home.”
My first inclination is to laugh. “You’d rather it was you?” I scoff.
He glares down at me, caught off guard by my audacity, I think, but he’s trying to hide his
amusement.
“Frankly, yes.”
“Pervert,” I mouth at him and bite my lower lip to prevent my smile.
His mouth drops open, and now his amusement is obvious. He strokes his chin thoughtfully.
“Can’t argue with that assessment, Anastasia.” He shakes his head, and his eyes soften with
humor.
“I’d discuss it further with you, but I’ve signed an NDA.”
He sighs, gazing at me, and his eyes darken. “What I’d like to do to your smart mouth,” he
murmurs.
I gasp, knowing full well what he means. “You’re very rude.” I try to sound shocked and succeed.
Does he have no boundaries?
He smirks at me, amused, and then he frowns.
“You look very relaxed in these photographs, Anastasia. I don’t see you like that very often.”
What? Whoa! Change of subject—talk about non sequitur—from playful to serious.
I flush and glance down at my fingers. He tilts my head back, and I inhale sharply at the contactwith his long fingers.
“I want you that relaxed with me,” he whispers. All trace of humor has gone.
Deep inside me that joy stirs again. But how can this be? We have issues.
“You have to stop intimidating me if you want that,” I snap.
“You have to learn to communicate and tell me how you feel,” he snaps back, eyes blazing.
I take a deep breath. “Christian, you wanted me as a submissive. That’s where the problem lies.
It’s in the definition of a submissive—you e-mailed it to me once.” I pause, trying to recall the
wording. “I think the synonyms were, and I quote, ‘compliant, pliant, amenable, passive, tractable,
resigned, patient, docile, tame, subdued.’ I wasn’t supposed to look at you. Not talk to you unless you
gave me permission to do so. What do you expect?” I hiss at him.
He blinks, and his frown deepens as I continue.
“It’s very confusing being with you. You don’t want me to defy you, but then you like my ‘smart
mouth.’ You want obedience, except when you don’t, so you can punish me. I just don’t know which
way is up when I’m with you.”
He narrows his eyes. “Good point well made, as usual, Miss Steele.” His voice is frigid. “Come,
let’s go eat.”
“We’ve only been here for half an hour.”
“You’ve seen the photos; you’ve spoken to the boy.”
“His name is José.”
“You’ve spoken to José—the man who, the last time I met him, was trying to push his tongue
into your reluctant mouth while you were drunk and ill,” he snarls.
“He’s never hit me,” I spit at him.
Christian scowls at me, fury emanating from every pore. “That’s a low blow, Anastasia,” he
whispers menacingly.
I flush, and Christian runs his hands through his hair, bristling with barely contained anger. I
glare back at him.
“I’m taking you for something to eat. You’re fading away in front of me. Find the boy, say good-
bye.”
“Please, can we stay longer?”
“No. Go. Now. Say good-bye.”
I glare at him, my blood boiling. Mr. Damned Control Freak. Angry is good. Angry is better than
tearful.
I drag my gaze away from him and scan the room for José. He’s talking to a group of young
women. I stalk off toward him and away from Fifty. Just because he brought me here, I have to do as
he says? Who the hell does he think he is?
The girls are hanging on José’s every word. One of them gasps as I approach, no doubt
recognizing me from the portraits.
“José.”
“Ana. Excuse me, girls.” José grins at them and puts his arm around me, and on some level I’m
amused—José all smooth, impressing the ladies.
“You look mad,” he says.
“I have to go,” I mutter mulishly.
“You just got here.”
“I know but Christian needs to get back. The pictures are fantastic, José—you’re very talented.”
He beams. “It was so cool seeing you.”
Jose sweeps me into a big bear hug, spinning me so I can see Christian across the gallery. He’s
scowling, and I realize it’s because I’m in José’s arms. So in a very calculating move, I wrap my armsaround José’s neck. I think Christian is going to expire. His glare darkens to something quite sinister,
and slowly he makes his way toward us.
“Thanks for the warning about the portraits of me,” I mumble.
“Shit. Sorry, Ana. I should have told you. D’you like them?”
“Um... I don’t know,” I answer truthfully, momentarily knocked off balance by his question.
“Well, they’re all sold, so somebody likes them. How cool is that? You’re a poster girl.” He hugs
me tighter still as Christian reaches us, glowering at me now, though fortunately José doesn’t see.
José releases me. “Don’t be a stranger, Ana. Oh, Mr. Grey, good evening.”
“Mr. Rodriguez, very impressive.” Christian sounds icily polite. “I’m sorry we can’t stay longer,
but we need to head back to Seattle. Anastasia?” He subtly stresses we and takes my hand as he does
so.
“Bye, José. Congratulations again.” I give him a quick kiss on the cheek, and before I know it
Christian is dragging me out of the building. I know he’s boiling with silent wrath, but so am I.
He looks quickly up and down the street then heads left and suddenly sweeps me into a side alley,
abruptly pushing me up against a wall. He grabs my face between his hands, forcing me to look up
into his ardent determined eyes.
I gasp, and his mouth swoops down. He’s kissing me, violently. Briefly our teeth clash, then his
tongue is in my mouth.
Desire explodes like the Fourth of July throughout my body, and I’m kissing him back, matching
his fervor, my hands knotting in his hair, pulling it, hard. He groans, a low sexy sound in the back of
his throat that reverberates through me, and his hand moves down my body to the top of my thigh, his
fingers digging into my flesh through the plum dress.
I pour all the angst and heartbreak of the last few days into our kiss, binding him to me, and it
hits me—in this moment of blinding passion—he’s doing the same, he feels the same.
He breaks off the kiss, panting. His eyes are luminous with desire, firing the already heated blood
that is pounding through my body. My mouth is slack as I try to drag precious air into my lungs.
“You. Are. Mine,” he snarls, emphasizing each word. He pushes away from me and bends, hands
on his knees as if he’s run a marathon. “For the love of God, Ana.”
I lean against the wall, panting, trying to control the riotous reaction in my body, trying to find
my equilibrium again.
“I’m sorry,” I whisper once my breath has returned.
“You should be. I know what you were doing. Do you want the photographer, Anastasia? He
obviously has feelings for you.”
I flush and shake my head.
“No. He’s just a friend.”
“I have spent all my adult life trying to avoid any extreme emotion. Yet you... you bring out
feelings in me that are completely alien. It’s very...” He frowns, grasping for the word. “Unsettling.
“I like control, Ana, and around you that just”—he stands, his gaze intense—“evaporates.” He
waves his hand vaguely, then runs it through his hair and takes a deep breath. He clasps my hand.
“Come, we need to talk, and you need to eat.”He leads me into a small, intimate restaurant.
“This place will have to do,” Christian grumbles. “We don’t have much time.”
The restaurant looks fine to me. Wooden chairs, linen tablecloths, and walls the same color as
Christian’s playroom—deep blood red—with small gilt mirrors randomly placed, white candles, and
small vases of white roses. Ella Fitzgerald croons softly in the background about this thing called
love. It’s very romantic.
The waiter leads us to a table for two in a small alcove, and I sit, apprehensive and wondering
what he’s going to say.
“We don’t have long,” Christian says to the waiter as we sit. “So we’ll each have sirloin steak
cooked medium, béarnaise sauce if you have it, fries, and green vegetables, whatever the chef has; and
bring me the wine list.”
“Certainly, sir.” The waiter, taken aback by Christian’s cool, calm efficiency, scuttles off.
Christian places his Blackberry on the table. Jeez, don’t I get a choice?
“And if I don’t like steak?”
He sighs. “Don’t start, Anastasia.”
“I am not a child, Christian.”
“Well, stop acting like one.”
It’s as if he’s slapped me. I blink at him. So this is how it will be, an agitated, fraught
conversation, albeit in a very romantic setting but certainly no hearts and flowers.
“I’m a child because I don’t like steak?” I mutter trying to conceal my hurt.
“For deliberately making me jealous. It’s a childish thing to do. Have you no regard for your
friend’s feelings, leading him on like that?” Christian presses his lips together in a thin line and
scowls as the waiter returns with the wine list.
I blush—I hadn’t thought of that. Poor José—I certainly don’t want to encourage him. Suddenly,
I’m mortified. Christian has a point; it was a thoughtless thing to do. He glances at the wine list.
“Would you like to choose the wine?” he asks, raising his eyebrows at me expectantly, arrogance
personified. He knows I know nothing about wine.
“You choose,” I answer, sullen but chastened.
“Two glasses of the Barossa Valley Shiraz, please.”“Er... we only sell that wine by the bottle, sir.”
“A bottle then,” Christian snaps.
“Sir.” He retreats, subdued, and I don’t blame him. I frown at Fifty. What’s eating him? Oh, me
probably, and somewhere in the depths of my psyche, my inner goddess rises sleepily, stretches, and
smiles. She’s been asleep for a while.
“You’re very grumpy.”
He gazes at me impassively. “I wonder why that is?”
“Well, it’s good to set the right tone for an intimate and honest discussion about the future,
wouldn’t you say?” I smile at him sweetly.
His mouth presses into a hard line, but then, almost reluctantly, his lips lift, and I know he’s
trying to stifle his smile.
“I’m sorry,” he says.
“Apology accepted, and I’m pleased to inform you I haven’t decided to become a vegetarian
since we last ate.”
“Since that was the last time you ate, I think that’s a moot point.”
“There’s that word again, moot.”
“Moot,” he mouths and his eyes soften with humor. He runs his hand through his hair, and he’s
serious again. “Ana, the last time we spoke, you left me. I’m a little nervous. I’ve told you I want you
back, and you’ve said... nothing.” His gaze is intense and expectant while his candor is totally
disarming. What the hell do I say to this?
“I’ve missed you... really missed you, Christian. The past few days have been... difficult.” I
swallow, and a lump in my throat swells as I recall my desperate anguish since I left him.
This last week has been the worst in my life, the pain almost indescribable. Nothing has come
close. But reality hits home, winding me.
“Nothing’s changed. I can’t be what you want me to be.” I squeeze the words out past the lump in
my throat.
“You are what I want you to be,” he says, his soft voice emphatic.
“No, Christian, I’m not.”
“You’re upset because of what happened last time. I behaved stupidly, and you... So did you.
Why didn’t you safe word, Anastasia?” His tone changes, becoming accusatory.
What? Whoa—change of direction. I flush, blinking at him.
“Answer me.”
“I don’t know. I was overwhelmed. I was trying to be what you wanted me to be, trying to deal
with the pain, and it went out of my mind. You know... I forgot,” I whisper ashamed, and I shrug
apologetically.
Jeez, perhaps we could have avoided all this heartache.
“You forgot!” he gasps with horror, grabbing the sides of the table and glaring at me. I wither
under his stare.
Shit! He’s furious again. My inner goddess glares at me, too. See, you brought all this on
yourself!
“How can I trust you?” he says, his voice low. “Ever?”
The waiter arrives with our wine as we sit staring at each other, blue eyes to gray. Both of us
filled with unspoken recriminations, while the waiter removes the cork with an unnecessary flourish
and pours a little wine into Christian’s glass. Automatically Christian reaches out and takes a sip.
“That’s fine.” His voice is curt.
Gingerly the waiter fills our glasses, placing the bottle on the table before beating a hasty retreat.Christian has not taken his eyes off me the whole time. I am the first to crack, breaking eye contact,
picking up my glass and taking a large gulp. I barely taste it.
“I’m sorry,” I whisper, suddenly feeling stupid. I left because I thought we were incompatible,
but he’s saying I could have stopped him?
“Sorry for what?” he says alarmed.
“Not using the safe word.”
He closes his eyes, as if in relief.
“We might have avoided all this suffering,” he mutters.
“You look fine.” More than fine. You look like you.
“Appearances can be deceptive,” he says quietly. “I’m anything but fine. I feel like the sun has
set and not risen for five days, Ana. I’m in perpetual night here.”
I’m winded by his admission. Oh my, like me.
“You said you’d never leave, yet the going gets tough and you’re out the door.”
“When did I say I’d never leave?”
“In your sleep. It was the most comforting thing I’d heard in so long, Anastasia. It made me
relax.”
My heart constricts and I reach for my wine.
“You said you loved me,” he whispers. “Is that now in the past tense?” His voice is low, laced
with anxiety.
“No, Christian, it’s not.”
He gazes at me, and he looks so vulnerable as he exhales. “Good,” he murmurs.
I’m shocked by his admission. He’s had a change of heart. When I told him I loved him before,
he was horrified. The waiter is back. Briskly he places our plates in front of us and scuttles away.
Holy hell. Food.
“Eat,” Christian commands.
Deep down I know I’m hungry, but right now, my stomach is in knots. Sitting across from the
only man I have ever loved and debating our uncertain future does not promote a healthy appetite. I
look dubiously at my food.
“So help me God, Anastasia, if you don’t eat, I will take you across my knee here in this
restaurant, and it will have nothing to do with my sexual gratification. Eat!”
Jeez, keep your hair on, Grey. My subconscious stares at me over her half-moon specs. She is
wholeheartedly in agreement with Fifty Shades.
“Okay, I’ll eat. Stow your twitching palm, please.”
He doesn’t smile but continues to glare at me. Reluctantly I lift my knife and fork and slice into
my steak. Oh, it’s mouthwateringly good. I am hungry, really hungry. I chew and he visibly relaxes.
We eat our supper in silence. The music’s changed. A soft-voiced woman sings in the
background, her words echoing my thoughts.
I glance at Fifty. He’s eating and watching me. Hunger, longing, anxiety combined in one hot
look.
“Do you know who’s singing?” I try for some normal conversation.
Christian pauses and listens. “No... but she’s good, whoever she is.”
“I like her, too.”
Finally he smiles his private enigmatic smile. What’s he planning?
“What?” I ask.
He shakes his head. “Eat up,” he says mildly.
I have eaten half the food on my plate. I cannot eat any more. How can I negotiate this?
“I can’t manage any more. Have I eaten enough for Sir?”He stares at me impassively, not answering, then glances at his watch.
“I am really full,” I add, taking a sip of the delicious wine.
“We have to go shortly. Taylor’s here, and you have to be up for work in the morning.”
“So do you.”
“I function on a lot less sleep than you do, Anastasia. At least you’ve eaten something.”
“Aren’t we going back via Charlie Tango?”
“No, I thought I might have a drink. Taylor will collect us. Besides, this way I have you in the car
all to myself for a few hours, at least. What can we do but talk?”
Oh, that’s his plan.
Christian summons the waiter to ask for the check, then picks up his Blackberry and makes a call.
“We’re at Le Picotin, South West Third Avenue.” He hangs up.
Jeez, he’s curt over the phone.
“You’re very brusque with Taylor, in fact, with most people.”
“I just get to the point quickly, Anastasia.”
“You haven’t gotten to the point this evening. Nothing’s changed, Christian.”
“I have a proposition for you.”
“This started with a proposition.”
“A different proposition.”
The waiter returns, and Christian hands over his credit card without checking the bill. He gazes at
me speculatively while the waiter swipes his card. Christian’s phone buzzes once, and he peers at it.
He has a proposition? What now? A couple of scenarios run through my mind: kidnap, working
for him. No, nothing makes sense. Christian finishes paying.
“Come. Taylor’s outside.”
We stand and he takes my hand.
“I don’t want to lose you, Anastasia.” He kisses my knuckles tenderly, and the touch of his lips
on my skin resonates throughout my body.
Outside the Audi is waiting. Christian opens my door. Climbing in, I sink into the plush leather.
He heads to the driver’s side, Taylor steps out of the car and they talk briefly. This isn’t their usual
protocol. I’m curious. What are they talking about? Moments later, they both climb in, and I glance at
Christian who’s wearing his impassive face as he stares ahead.
I allow myself a brief moment to examine his godlike profile: straight nose, sculptured full lips,
hair falling deliciously over his forehead. This divine man is surely not meant for me.
Soft music suddenly fills the rear of the car, an orchestral piece that I don’t know, and Taylor
pulls into the light traffic, heading for the I-5 and Seattle.
Christian shifts to face me. “As I was saying, Anastasia, I have a proposition for you.”
I glance nervously at Taylor.
“Taylor can’t hear you,” Christian reassures me.
“How?”
“Taylor,” Christian calls. Taylor doesn’t respond. He calls again, still no response. Christian
leans over and taps his shoulder. Taylor removes an ear bud I hadn’t noticed.
“Yes, sir?”
“Thank you, Taylor. It’s okay; resume your listening.”
“Sir.”
“Happy now? He’s listening to his iPod. Puccini. Forget he’s here. I do.”
“Did you deliberately ask him to do that?”
“Yes.”
Oh. “Okay, your proposition?”Christian looks suddenly determined and businesslike. Holy shit. We’re negotiating a deal. I
listen attentively.
“Let me ask you something first. Do you want a regular vanilla relationship with no kinky
fuckery at all?”
My mouth drops open. “Kinky fuckery?” I squeak.
“Kinky fuckery.”
“I can’t believe you said that.” I glance nervously at Taylor.
“Well, I did. Answer me,” he says calmly.
I flush. My inner goddess is down on bended knee with her hands clasped in supplication begging
me.
“I like your kinky fuckery,” I whisper.
“That’s what I thought. So what don’t you like?”
Not being able to touch you. You enjoying my pain, the bite of the belt...
“The threat of cruel and unusual punishment.”
“What does that mean?”
“Well, you have all those canes and whips and stuff in your playroom, and they frighten the
living daylights out of me. I don’t want you to use them on me.”
“Okay, so no whips or canes—or belts, for that matter,” he says sardonically.
I gaze at him puzzled. “Are you attempting to redefine the hard limits?”
“Not as such, I’m just trying to understand you, get a clearer picture of what you do and don’t
like.”
“Fundamentally, Christian, it’s your joy in inflicting pain on me that’s difficult for me to handle.
And the idea that you’ll do it because I have crossed some arbitrary line.”
“But it’s not arbitrary; the rules are written down.”
“I don’t want a set of rules.”
“None at all?”
“No rules.” I shake my head, but my heart is in my mouth. Where is he going with this?
“But you don’t mind if I spank you?”
“Spank me with what?”
“This.” He holds up his hand.
I squirm uncomfortably. “No, not really. Especially with those silver balls...” Thank heavens it’s
dark, my face is flaming and my voice trails off as I recall that night. Yeah... I’d do that again.
He smirks at me. “Yes, that was fun.”
“More than fun,” I mutter.
“So you can deal with some pain.”
I shrug. “Yes, I suppose.” Oh, where is he going with this? My anxiety level has shot up several
magnitudes on the Richter scale.
He strokes his chin, deep in thought. “Anastasia, I want to start again. Do the vanilla thing and
then maybe, once you trust me more and I trust you to be honest and to communicate with me, we
could move on and do some of the things that I like to do.”
I stare at him, stunned, with no thoughts in my head at all—like a computer crash. He gazes at me
anxiously, but I can’t see him clearly, as we’re shrouded in the Oregon darkness. It occurs to me,
finally, this is it.
He wants the light, but can I ask him to do this for me? And don’t I like the dark? Some dark,
sometimes. Memories of the Thomas Tallis night drift invitingly through my mind.
“But what about punishments?”
“No punishments.” He shakes his head. “None.”“And the rules?”
“No rules.”
“None at all? But you have needs.”
“I need you more, Anastasia. These last few days have been purgatory. All my instincts tell me to
let you go, tell me I don’t deserve you.
“Those photos the boy took . . . I can see how he sees you. You look so untroubled and beautiful,
not that you’re not beautiful now, but here you sit. I see your pain. It’s hard knowing that I’m the one
who has made you feel this way.
“But I’m a selfish man. I’ve wanted you since you fell into my office. You are exquisite, honest,
warm, strong, witty, beguilingly innocent; the list is endless. I am in awe of you. I want you, and the
thought of anyone else having you is like a knife twisting in my dark soul.”
My mouth goes dry. Holy shit. My subconscious nods with satisfaction. If that isn’t a declaration
of love, I don’t know what is. And the words tumble out of me—a dam breached.
“Christian, why do you think you have a dark soul? I would never say that. Sad maybe, but you’re
a good man. I can see that... you’re generous, you’re kind, and you’ve never lied to me. And I haven’t
tried very hard.
“Last Saturday was such a shock to my system. It was my wake-up call. I realized that you’d been
easy on me and that I couldn’t be the person you wanted me to be. Then, after I left, it dawned on me
that the physical pain you inflicted was not as bad as the pain of losing you. I do want to please you,
but it’s hard.”
“You please me all the time,” he whispers. “How often do I have to tell you that?”
“I never know what you’re thinking. Sometimes you’re so closed off... like an island state. You
intimidate me. That’s why I keep quiet. I don’t know which way your mood is going to go. It swings
from north to south and back again in a nanosecond. It’s confusing and you won’t let me touch you,
and I want to so much to show you how much I love you.”
He blinks at me in the darkness, warily I think, and I can resist him no longer. I unbuckle my
seatbelt and scramble into his lap, taking him by surprise, and take his head in my hands.
“I love you, Christian Grey. And you’re prepared to do all this for me. I’m the one who is
undeserving, and I’m just sorry that I can’t do all those things for you. Maybe with time... I don’t
know... but yes, I accept your proposition. Where do I sign?”
He snakes his arms around me and crushes me to him.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes as he buries his nose in my hair.
We sit, our arms wrapped around each other, listening to the music—a soothing piano piece—
mirroring the emotions in the car, the sweet tranquil calm after the storm. I snuggle into his arms,
resting my head in the crook of his neck. He gently strokes my back.
“Touching is a hard limit for me, Anastasia,” he whispers.
“I know. I wish I understood why.”
After a while, he sighs, and in a soft voice he says, “I had a horrific childhood. One of the crack
whore’s pimps...” His voice trails off, and his body tenses as he recalls some unimaginable horror. “I
can remember that,” he whispers, shuddering.
Abruptly, my heart constricts as I remember the burn scars marring his skin. Oh, Christian. I
tighten my arms around his neck.
“Was she abusive? Your mother?” My voice is low and soft with unshed tears.
“Not that I remember. She was neglectful. She didn’t protect me from her pimp.”
He snorts. “I think it was me who looked after her. When she finally killed herself, it took four
days for someone to raise the alarm and find us... I remember that.”I cannot contain my gasp of horror. Holy mother fuck. Bile rises in my throat.
“That’s pretty fucked-up,” I whisper.
“Fifty shades,” he murmurs.
I turn my head and press my lips against his neck, seeking and offering solace as I imagine a
small, dirty, gray-eyed boy lost and lonely beside the body of his dead mother.
Oh, Christian. I breathe in his scent. He smells heavenly, my favorite fragrance in the entire
world. He tightens his arms around me and kisses my hair, and I sit wrapped in his embrace as Taylor
speeds into the night.
When I wake, we’re driving through Seattle.
“Hey,” Christian says softly.
“Sorry,” I murmur as I sit up, blinking and stretching. I am still in his arms, on his lap.
“I could watch you sleep forever, Ana.”
“Did I say anything?”
“No. We’re nearly at your place.”
Oh? “We’re not going to yours?”
“No.”
I sit up and gaze at him. “Why not?”
“Because you have work tomorrow.”
“Oh.” I pout.
He smirks at me. “Why, did you have something in mind?”
I flush. “Well, maybe.”
He chuckles. “Anastasia, I am not going to touch you again, not until you beg me to.”
“What!”
“So that you’ll start communicating with me. Next time we make love, you’re going to have to
tell me exactly what you want in fine detail.”
“Oh.” He shifts me off his lap as Taylor pulls up outside my apartment. Christian climbs out and
holds the car door open for me.
“I have something for you.” He moves to the back of the car, opens the trunk, and pulls out a
large gift-wrapped box. What the hell is this?
“Open it when you get inside.”
“You’re not coming in?”
“No, Anastasia.”
“So when will I see you?”
“Tomorrow.”
“My boss wants me to go for a drink with him tomorrow.”
Christian’s face hardens. “Does he, now?” His voice is laced with latent menace.
“To celebrate my first week,” I add quickly.
“Where?”
“I don’t know.”
“I could pick you up from there.”
“Okay... I’ll e-mail or text you.”
“Good.”
He walks me to the lobby door and waits while I dig my keys out of my purse. As I unlock thedoor, he leans forward and cups my chin, tilting my head back. His mouth hovers over mine, and
closing his eyes, he runs a trail of kisses from the corner of my eye to the corner of my mouth.
A small moan escapes my mouth as my insides melt and unfurl.
“Until tomorrow,” he breathes.
“Goodnight, Christian,” I whisper, and I hear the need in my voice.
He smiles.
“In you go,” he orders, and I walk through the lobby carrying my mysterious parcel.
“Laters, baby,” he calls, then turns and with his easy grace, heads back to the car.
Once in the apartment, I open the gift box and find my MacBook Pro laptop, the Blackberry, and
another rectangular box. What is this? I unwrap the silver paper. Inside is a black, slim, leather case.
Opening the case, I find an iPad. Holy shit... an iPad. A white card is resting on the screen with a
message written in Christian’s handwriting:
Holy cow. I have a Christian Grey mix-tape in the guise of a high-end iPad. I shake my head in
disapproval because of the expense, but deep down I love it. Jack at the office has one, so I know how
they work.
I switch it on and gasp as the wallpaper image appears: a small model glider. Oh my. It’s the
Blanik L23 I gave him, mounted on a glass stand and sitting on what I think is Christian’s desk at his
office. I gape at it.
He built it! He really did build it. I remember now he mentioned it in the note with the flowers.
I’m reeling, and I know in that instant that he’s put a great deal of thought into this gift.
I slide the arrow at the bottom of the screen to unlock it and gasp again. The background
photograph is of Christian and me at my graduation in the marquee. It’s the one that appeared in the
Seattle Times. Christian looks so handsome and I can’t help my face-splitting grin, as my inner
goddess curls up hugging herself on her chaise longue—Yes, and he’s mine!
With a swipe of my finger, the icons shift, and several new ones appear on the next screen. A
Kindle app, iBooks, Words—whatever that is.
Holy shit! The British Library? I touch the icon and a menu appears: Historical Collection.
Scrolling down, I select Novels of the 18th and 19th Century. Another menu. I tap on a title: The
American by Henry James. A new window opens, offering me a scanned copy of the book to read.
Holy crap—it’s an early edition, published in 1879, and it’s on my iPad! He’s bought me the British
Library at a touch of a button.
I exit quickly, knowing that I could be lost in this app for an eternity. I notice a “good food” app
that makes me roll my eyes and smile at the same time, a news app, a weather app, but his note
mentioned music. I go back to the main screen, hit the iPod icon and a playlist appears. I scroll
through the songs, and the list makes me smile. Thomas Tallis—I’m not going to forget that in a
hurry. I heard it twice, after all, while he flogged and fucked me.
“Witchcraft.” My grin gets wider—dancing round the great room. The Bach Marcello piece—oh
no, that’s way too sad for my mood right now. Hmm. Jeff Buckley—yeah, I’ve heard of him. Snow
Patrol—my favorite band—and a song called “Principles of Lust” by Enigma. How Christian. I smirk.Another called “Possession”... oh yes, very Fifty Shades. And a few more I have never heard.
Selecting a song that catches my eye, I press play. It’s called “Try” by Nellie Furtado. She starts
to sing, and her voice is a silken scarf wrapping around me, enveloping me. I lie down on my bed.
Does this mean Christian’s going to try? Try this new relationship? I drink in the lyrics, staring at
the ceiling, trying to understand his turnaround. He missed me. I missed him. He must have some
feelings for me. He must. This iPad, these songs, these apps—he cares. He really cares. My heart
swells with hope.
The song ends and tears spring to my eyes. I quickly scroll to another—“The Scientist” by
Coldplay—one of Kate’s favorite bands. I know the track, but I’ve never really listened to the lyrics
before. I close my eyes and let the words wash over and through me.
My tears start to flow. I can’t stem them. If this isn’t an apology, what is it? Oh, Christian.
Or is this an invitation? Will he answer my questions? Am I reading too much into this? I am
probably reading too much into this. My subconscious nods at me, trying to hide her pity.
I dash my tears away. I have to e-mail him to thank him. I leap off my bed to fetch the mean
machine.
Coldplay continues as I sit cross-legged on my bed. The Mac powers up and I log in.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: IPAD
Date: June 9, 2011 23:56
To: Christian Grey
You’ve made me cry again.
I love the iPad.
I love the songs.
I love the British Library App.
I love you.
Thank you.
Goodnight.
Ana xx
From: Christian Grey
Subject: iPad
Date: June 10, 2011 00:03
To: Anastasia Steele
I’m glad you like it. I bought one for myself.
Now, if I were there, I would kiss away your tears.
But I’m not—so go to sleep.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
His response makes me smile, still so bossy, still so Christian. Will that change, too? AndI realize in that moment that I hope not. I like him like this—commanding—as long as I
can stand up to him without fear of punishment.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Mr. Grumpy
Date: June 10, 2011 00:07
To: Christian Grey
You sound your usual bossy and possibly tense, possibly grumpy self, Mr. Grey.
I know something that could ease that. But then, you’re not here—you wouldn’t let me stay, and you expect me to beg...
Dream on, Sir.
Ana xx
PS: I also note that you included the Stalker’s Anthem, “Every Breath You Take.” I do enjoy your sense of humor, but does Dr. Flynn know?
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Zen-Like Calm
Date: June 10, 2011 00.10
To: Anastasia Steele
My Dearest Miss Steele
Spanking occurs in vanilla relationships, too, you know. Usually consensually and in a sexual context... but I am more than happy to make an exception.
You’ll be relieved to know that Dr. Flynn also enjoys my sense of humor.
Now, please go to sleep as you won’t get much tomorrow.
Incidentally—you will beg, trust me. And I look forward to it.
Christian Grey
Tense CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Goodnight, Sweet Dreams
Date: June 10, 2011 00:12
To: Christian Grey
Well, since you ask so nicely, and I like your delicious threat, I shall curl up with the iPad that you have so kindly given me and fall asleep browsing in the British Library, listening to the music that says it for you.
A xxx
From: Christian Grey
Subject: One more request
Date: June 10, 2011 00:15To: Anastasia Steele
Dream of me.
x
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Dream of you, Christian Grey? Always.
I change quickly into my pajamas, brush my teeth, and slip into bed. Putting my ear
buds in, I pull the flattened Charlie Tango balloon from underneath my pillow and hug it
to me.
I am brimming with joy, a stupid, widemouthed grin on my face. What a difference a
day can make. How am I ever going to sleep?
José Gonzalez starts to sing a soothing melody with a hypnotic guitar riff, and I drift
slowly into sleep, marveling how the world has righted itself in one evening and
wondering idly if I should make a playlist for Christian.The one good thing about being car-less is that on the bus on my way to work, I can plug my
headphones into my iPad while it’s safely in my purse and listen to all the wonderful tunes Christian
has given me. By the time I arrive at the office, I have the most ludicrous grin on my face.
Jack glances up at me and does a double take.
“Good morning, Ana. You look... radiant.” His remark flusters me. How inappropriate!
“I slept well, thank you, Jack. Good morning.”
His brow crinkles.
“Can you read these for me and have reports on them by lunchtime, please?” He hands me four
manuscripts. At my horrified expression, he adds, “Just first chapters.”
“Sure,” I smile with relief, and he gives me a broad smile in return.
I switch on the computer to start work, finishing my latte and eating a banana. There’s an e-mail
from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: So Help Me...
Date: June 10, 2011 08:05
To: Anastasia Steele
I do hope you’ve had breakfast.
I missed you last night.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia SteeleSubject: Old books...
Date: June 10, 2011 08:33
To: Christian Grey
I am eating a banana as I type. I have not had breakfast for several days, so it is a step forward. I love the British Library App—I started rereading Robinson Crusoe... and of course, I love you.
Now leave me alone—I am trying to work.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Is that all you’ve eaten?
Date: June 10, 2011 08:36
To: Anastasia Steele
You can do better than that. You’re going to need your energy for begging.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Pest
Date: June 10, 2011 08:39
To: Christian Grey
Mr. Grey—I am trying to work for a living—and it’s you that will be begging.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Bring it On!
Date: June 10, 2011 08:36
To: Anastasia Steele
Why Miss Steele, I love a challenge...
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I sit grinning at the screen like an idiot. But I need to read these chapters for Jack and write reports on
all of them. Placing the manuscripts on my desk, I begin.
At lunchtime I head to the deli for a pastrami sandwich and listen to the playlist on my iPad. First
up there’s Nitin Sawhney, some world music called “Homelands”—it’s good. Mr. Grey has an eclectic
taste in music. I wander back, listening to a classical piece, Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis byVaughn Williams. Oh, Fifty has a sense of humor, and I love him for it. Will this stupid grin ever
leave my face?
The afternoon drags. I decide, in an unguarded moment, to e-mail Christian.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Bored...
Date: June 10, 2011 16:05
To: Christian Grey
Twiddling my thumbs.
How are you?
What are you doing?
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Your thumbs
Date: June 10, 2011 16:15
To: Anastasia Steele
You should have come to work for me.
You wouldn’t be twiddling your thumbs.
I am sure I could put them to better use.
In fact I can think of a number of options...
I am doing the usual humdrum mergers and acquisitions.
It’s all very dry.
Your e-mails at SIP are monitored.
Christian Grey
Distracted CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh shit. I had no idea. How the hell does he know? I scowl at the screen and quickly check the e-mails
we’ve sent, deleting them as I do.
Promptly at five thirty, Jack is at my desk. It is Dress-down Friday so he’s wearing jeans and a
black shirt. He looks very casual.
“Drink, Ana? We usually like to go for a quick one at the bar across the street.”
“We?” I ask, hopeful.
“Yeah, most of us go... you coming?”
For some unknown reason, which I don’t want to examine too closely, relief floods through me.
“I’d love to. What’s the bar called?”
“50s.”
“You’re kidding.”
He looks at me oddly. “No. Some significance for you?”
“No, sorry. I’ll join you over there.”
“What would you like to drink?”
“A beer please.”“Cool.”
I make my way to the powder room and e-mail Christian from the Blackberry.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: You’ll Fit Right In
Date: June 10, 2011 17:36
To: Christian Grey
We are going to a bar called Fifty’s.
The rich seam of humor that I could mine from this is endless.
I look forward to seeing you there, Mr. Grey.
A x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Hazards
Date: June 10, 2011 17:38
To: Anastasia Steele
Mining is a very, very dangerous occupation.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Hazards?
Date: June 10, 2011 17:40
To: Christian Grey
And your point is?
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Merely...
Date: June 10, 2011 17:42
To: Anastasia Steele
Making an observation, Miss Steele.
I’ll see you shortly.
Sooners rather than laters, baby.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.I check myself in the mirror. What a difference a day can make. I have more color in my cheeks, and
my eyes are shining. It’s the Christian Grey effect. A little e-mail sparring with him will do that to a
girl. I grin at the mirror and straighten my pale blue shirt—the one Taylor bought me. I am wearing
my favorite jeans today, too. Most of the women in the office wear either jeans or floaty skirts. I will
need to invest in a floaty skirt or two. Perhaps I’ll do that this weekend and bank the check Christian
gave me for Wanda, my Beetle.
As I head out of the building, I hear my name called.
“Miss Steele?”
I turn expectantly, and an ashen young woman approaches me cautiously. She looks like a ghost
—so pale and strangely blank.
“Miss Anastasia Steele?” she repeats, and her features stay static even though she’s speaking.
“Yes?”
She stops, staring at me from about three feet away on the sidewalk, and I stare back,
immobilized. Who is she? What does she want?
“Can I help you?” I ask. How does she know my name?
“No... I just wanted to look at you.” Her voice is eerily soft. Like me, she has dark hair that
starkly contrasts with her fair skin. Her eyes are brown, like bourbon, but flat. There’s no life in them
at all. Her beautiful face is pale, and etched with sorrow.
“Sorry—you have me at a disadvantage,” I say politely, trying to ignore the warning tingle up my
spine. On closer inspection, she looks odd, disheveled and uncared for. Her clothes are two sizes too
big, including her designer trench coat.
She laughs, a strange, discordant sound that only feeds my anxiety.
“What do you have that I don’t?” she asks sadly.
My anxiety turns to fear. “I’m sorry—who are you?”
“Me? I’m nobody.” She lifts her arm to drag her hand through her shoulder length hair, and as
she does, the sleeve of her trench coat rides up, revealing a soiled bandage around her wrist.
Holy fuck.
“Good day, Miss Steele.” Turning, she walks up the street as I stand rooted to the spot. I watch as
her slight frame disappears from view, lost amongst the workers pouring out of their various offices.
What was that about?
Confused, I cross the street to the bar, trying to assimilate what has just happened, while my
subconscious rears her ugly head and hisses at me—She has something to do with Christian.
Fifty’s is a cavernous, impersonal bar with baseball pennants and posters hanging on the wall.
Jack is at the bar with Elizabeth, Courtney the other commissioning editor, two guys from finance, and
Claire from reception. She is wearing her trademark silver hooped earrings.
“Hi, Ana!” Jack hands me a bottle of Bud.
“Cheers... thank you,” I murmur, still shaken by my encounter with Ghost Girl.
“Cheers.” We clink bottles, and he continues his conversation with Elizabeth. Claire smiles
sweetly at me.
“So, how has your first week been?” she asks.
“Good, thank you. Everyone seems very friendly.”
“You seem much happier today.”
I flush. “It’s Friday,” I mutter quickly. “So—have you any plans this weekend?”My patented distraction technique works and I’m saved. Claire turns out to be one of seven kids, and
she’s going to a big family get-together in Tacoma. She becomes quite animated, and I realize I
haven’t spoken to any women my own age since Kate left for Barbados.
Absently I wonder how Kate is... and Elliot. I must remember to ask Christian if he’s heard from
him. Oh, and Ethan her brother will be back next Tuesday, and he’ll be staying in our apartment. I
can’t imagine Christian is going to be happy about that. My earlier encounter with strange Ghost Girl
slips further from my mind.
During my conversation with Claire, Elizabeth hands me another beer.
“Thanks,” I smile at her.
Claire is very easy to talk to—she likes to talk—and before I know it, I am on my third beer,
courtesy of one of the guys from finance.
When Elizabeth and Courtney leave, Jack joins Claire and me. Where is Christian? One of the
finance guys engages Claire in conversation.
“Ana, think you made the right decision coming here?” Jack’s voice is soft, and he’s standing a
bit too close. But I’ve noticed that he has a tendency to do this with everyone, even at the office. My
subconscious narrows her eyes. You’re reading too much into this, she admonishes me.
“I’ve enjoyed myself this week, thank you, Jack. Yes, I think I made the right decision.”
“You’re a very bright girl, Ana. You’ll go far.”
I blush. “Thank you,” I mutter, because I don’t know what else to say.
“Do you live far?”
“The Pike Market district.”
“Not far from me.” Smiling, he moves even closer and leans against the bar, effectively trapping
me. “Do you have any plans this weekend?”
“Well... um—”
I feel him before I see him. It’s as if my whole body is highly attuned to his presence. It relaxes
and ignites at the same time—a weird, internal duality—and I sense that strange pulsing electricity.
Christian drapes his arm around my shoulder in a seemingly casual display of affection—but I
know differently. He is staking a claim, and on this occasion, it’s very welcome. Softly he kisses my
hair.
“Hello, baby,” he murmurs.
I can’t help but feel relieved, safe, and excited with his arm around me. He draws me to his side,
and I glance up at him while he stares at Jack, his expression impassive. Turning his attention to me,
he gives me a brief crooked smile followed by a swift kiss. He’s wearing his navy pinstriped jacket
over jeans and an open white shirt. He looks edible.
Jack shuffles back uncomfortably.
“Jack, this is Christian,” I mumble apologetically. Why am I apologizing? “Christian, Jack.”
“I’m the boyfriend,” Christian says with a small, cool smile that doesn’t reach his eyes as he
shakes Jack’s hand. I glance up at Jack who is mentally assessing the fine specimen of manhood in
front of him.
“I’m the boss,” Jack replies arrogantly. “Ana did mention an ex-boyfriend.”
Oh, shit. You don’t want to play this game with Fifty.
“Well, no longer ex,” Christian replies calmly. “Come on, baby, time to go.”
“Please, stay and join us for a drink,” Jack says smoothly.
I don’t think that’s a good idea. Why is this so uncomfortable? I glance at Claire, who is, of
course staring, open-mouthed and with frankly carnal appreciation at Christian. When will I stop
caring about the effect he has on other women?
“We have plans,” Christian replies with his enigmatic smile.We do? And a frisson of anticipation runs through my body.
“Another time, perhaps,” he adds. “Come,” he says to me as he takes my hand.
“See you Monday.” I smile at Jack, Claire, and the guys from finance, trying hard to ignore
Jack’s less-than-pleased expression, and follow Christian out of the door.
Taylor is at the wheel of the Audi waiting at the curb.
“Why did that feel like a pissing contest?” I ask Christian as he opens the car door for me.
“Because it was,” he murmurs and gives me his enigmatic smile then shuts my door.
“Hello, Taylor,” I say and our eyes meet in the review mirror.
“Miss Steele,” Taylor acknowledges with a genial smile.
Christian slides in beside me, clasps my hand, and gently kisses my knuckles. “Hi,” he says
softly.
My cheeks turn pink, knowing that Taylor can hear us, grateful that he can’t see the scorching,
panty-combusting look that Christian is giving me. It takes all my self-restraint not to leap on him
right here, in the back seat of the car.
Oh, the back seat of the car... hmm. My inner goddess strokes her chin gently in quiet
contemplation.
“Hi,” I breathe, my mouth dry.
“What would you like to do this evening?”
“I thought you said we had plans.”
“Oh, I know what I’d like to do, Anastasia. I’m asking you what you want to do.”
I beam at him.
“I see,” he says with a wickedly salacious grin. “So... begging it is, then. Do you want to beg at
my place or yours?” He tilts his head to one side and smiles his oh-so-sexy smile at me.
“I think you’re being very presumptuous, Mr. Grey. But by way of a change, we could go to my
apartment.” I bite my lip deliberately, and his expression darkens.
“Taylor, Miss Steele’s, please.”
“Sir,” Taylor acknowledges and he heads off into the traffic.
“So how has your day been?” he asks.
“Good. Yours?”
“Good, thank you.”
His ridiculously broad grin reflects mine, and he kisses my hand again.
“You look lovely,” he says.
“As do you.”
“Your boss, Jack Hyde, is he good at his job?”
Whoa! That’s a sudden change in direction? I frown. “Why? This isn’t about your pissing
contest?”
Christian smirks. “That man wants into your panties, Anastasia,” he says dryly.
I go crimson as my mouth drops open, and I glance nervously at Taylor. My subconscious inhales
sharply, shocked.
“Well, he can want all he likes... why are we even having this conversation? You know I have no
interest in him whatsoever. He’s just my boss.”
“That’s the point. He wants what’s mine. I need to know if he’s good at his job.”
I shrug. “I think so.” Where is he going with this?
“Well, he’d better leave you alone, or he’ll find himself on his ass on the sidewalk.”
“Oh, Christian, what are you talking about? He hasn’t done anything wrong.”...Yet. He just stands
too close.
“He makes one move, you tell me. It’s called gross moral turpitude—or sexual harassment.”“It was just a drink after work.”
“I mean it. One move and he’s out.”
“You don’t have that kind of power.” Honestly! And before I roll my eyes at him, the realization
hits me with the force of a speeding freight truck. “Do you, Christian?”
Christian gives me his enigmatic smile.
“You’re buying the company,” I whisper in horror.
His smile slips in response to the panic in my voice. “Not exactly,” he says.
“You’ve bought it. SIP. Already.”
He blinks at me, warily. “Possibly.”
“You have or you haven’t?”
“Have.”
What the hell? “Why?” I gasp, appalled. Oh, this just is too much.
“Because I can, Anastasia. I need you safe.”
“But you said you wouldn’t interfere in my career!”
“And I won’t.”
I snatch my hand out of his. “Christian...” Words fail me.
“Are you mad at me?”
“Yes. Of course I’m mad at you.” I seethe. “I mean, what kind of responsible business executive
makes decisions based on who they are currently fucking?” I blanch and glance nervously once more
at Taylor who is stoically ignoring us.
Shit. What a time to have a brain-to-mouth filter malfunction. Anastasia! My subconscious
glares at me.
Christian opens his mouth then closes it again and scowls at me. I glare at him. The atmosphere
in the car plunges from warm with sweet reunion to frigid with unspoken words and potential
recriminations as we glower at each other.
Fortunately, our uncomfortable car journey doesn’t last long, and Taylor pulls up outside my
apartment.
I scramble out of the car quickly, not waiting for anyone to open the door.
I hear Christian mutter to Taylor, “I think you’d better wait here.”
I sense him standing close behind me as I struggle to find the front door keys in my purse.
“Anastasia,” he says calmly as if I’m some cornered wild animal.
I sigh and turn to face him. I am so mad at him, my anger is palpable—a dark entity threatening
to choke me.
“First, I haven’t fucked you for a while—a long while, it feels—and second, I wanted to get into
publishing. Of the four companies in Seattle, SIP is the most profitable, but it’s on the cusp and it’s
going to stagnate—it needs to branch out.”
I stare frigidly at him. His eyes are so intense, threatening even, but sexy as hell. I could get lost
in their steely depths.
“So you’re my boss now,” I snap.
“Technically, I’m your boss’s boss’s boss.”
“And, technically, it’s gross moral turpitude—the fact that I am fucking my boss’s boss’s boss.”
“At the moment, you’re arguing with him.” Christian scowls.
“That’s because he’s such an arse,” I hiss.
Christian steps back in stunned surprise. Oh shit. Have I gone too far?
“An arse?” he murmurs as his expression changes to one of amusement.
Goddamn it! I am mad at you, do not make me laugh!“Yes.” I struggle to maintain my look of moral outrage.
“An arse?” Christian says again. This time his lips twitch with a repressed smile.
“Don’t make me laugh when I am mad at you!” I shout.
And he smiles, a dazzling, full-toothed, all-American-boy smile, and I can’t help it. I am grinning
and laughing, too. How could I not be affected by the joy I see in his smile?
“Just because I have a stupid damn grin on my face doesn’t mean I’m not mad as hell at you,” I
mutter breathlessly, trying to suppress my high-school-cheerleader giggling. Though I was never
cheerleader—the bitter thought crosses my mind.
He leans in, and I think he’s going to kiss me but he doesn’t. He nuzzles my hair and inhales
deeply.
“As ever, Miss Steele, you are unexpected.” He leans back and gazes at me, his eyes dancing with
humor. “So are you going to invite me in, or am I to be sent packing for exercising my democratic
right as an American citizen, entrepreneur, and consumer to purchase whatever I damn well please?”
“Have you spoken to Dr. Flynn about this?”
He laughs. “Are you going to let me in or not, Anastasia?”
I try for a grudging look—biting my lip helps—but I’m smiling as I open the door. Christian
turns and waves to Taylor, and the Audi pulls away.
It’s odd having Christian Grey in the apartment. The place feels too small for him.
I am still mad at him—his stalking knows no bounds, and it dawns on me that this is how he
knew about the e-mail being monitored at SIP. He probably knows more about SIP than I do. The
thought is unsavory.
What can I do? Why does he have this need to keep me safe? I am a grown-up—sort of—for
heaven’s sake. What can I do to reassure him?
I gaze at his beautiful face as he paces the room like a caged predator, and my anger subsides.
Seeing him here in my space when I thought we were over is heartwarming. More than heartwarming,
I love him, and my heart swells with a nervous, heady elation. He glances around, assessing his
surroundings.
“Nice place,” he says.
“Kate’s parents bought it for her.”
He nods distractedly, and his bold gray eyes come to rest on mine, staring at me.
“Er... would you like a drink?” I mutter, flushing with nerves.
“No, thank you, Anastasia.” His eyes darken.
Oh crap. Why am I so nervous?
“What would you like to do, Anastasia?” he asks softly as he walks toward me, all feral and hot.
“I know what I want to do,” he adds in a low voice.
I back up until I bump against the concrete kitchen island.
“I’m still mad at you.”
“I know.” He smiles a lopsided apologetic smile and I melt... Well, maybe not so mad.
“Would you like something to eat?” I ask.
He nods slowly. “Yes. You,” he murmurs. Everything south of my waistline clenches. I’m
seduced by his voice alone, but that look, that hungry I-want-you-now look—oh my.
He’s standing in front of me, not quite touching, staring down into my eyes and bathing me in the
heat that’s radiating off his body. I’m stiflingly hot, flustered, and my legs are like jelly as dark desirecourses through me. I want him.
“Have you eaten today?” he murmurs.
“I had a sandwich at lunch,” I whisper. I don’t want to talk food.
He narrows his eyes. “You need to eat.”
“I’m really not hungry right now... for food.”
“What are you hungry for, Miss Steele?”
“I think you know, Mr. Grey.”
He leans down, and again I think he’s going to kiss me, but he doesn’t.
“Do you want me to kiss you, Anastasia?” he whispers softly in my ear.
“Yes,” I breathe.
“Where?”
“Everywhere.”
“You’re going to have to be a bit more specific than that. I told you I am not going to touch you
until you beg me and tell me what to do.”
My inner goddess is writhing on her chaise longue. I am lost; he’s not playing fair.
“Please,” I whisper.
“Please what?”
“Touch me.”
“Where, baby?”
He is so tantalizingly close, his scent intoxicating. I reach up, and immediately he steps back.
“No, no,” he chides, his eyes suddenly wide and alarmed.
“What?” No... come back.
“No.” He shakes his head.
“Not at all?” I can’t keep the longing out of my voice.
He looks at me uncertainly, and I’m emboldened by his hesitation. I step toward him, and he
steps back, holding up his hands in defense, but smiling.
“Look, Ana.” It’s a warning, and he runs his hand through his hair, exasperated.
“Sometimes you don’t mind,” I observe plaintively. “Perhaps I should find a marker pen, and we
could map out the no-go areas.”
He raises an eyebrow. “That’s not a bad idea. Where’s your bedroom?”
I nod in the direction. Is he deliberately changing the subject?
“Have you been taking your pill?”
Oh shit. My pill.
His face falls at my expression.
“No,” I squeak.
“I see,” he says, and his lips press into a thin line. “Come, let’s have something to eat.”
Oh no!
“I thought we were going to bed! I want to go to bed with you.”
“I know, baby.” He smiles, and suddenly darting toward me, he grabs my wrists and pulls me into
his arms so that his body is pressed against mine.
“You need to eat and so do I,” he murmurs, burning gray eyes gazing down at me. “Besides...
anticipation is the key to seduction, and right now, I’m really into delayed gratification.”
Huh, since when?
“I’m seduced and I want my gratification now. I’ll beg, please.” I sound whiney. My inner
goddess is beside herself.
He smiles at me tenderly. “Eat. You’re too slender.” He kisses my forehead and releases me.
This is a game, part of some evil plan. I scowl at him.“I’m still mad that you bought SIP, and now I am mad at you because you’re making me wait.” I
pout.
“You are one angry little madam, aren’t you? You’ll feel better after a good meal.”
“I know what I’ll feel better after.”
“Anastasia Steele, I’m shocked.” His tone is gently mocking.
“Stop teasing me. You don’t fight fair.”
He stifles his grin by biting his lower lip. He looks simply adorable... playful Christian toying
with my libido. If only my seduction skills were better, I’d know what to do, but not being able to
touch him does hamper me.
My inner goddess narrows her eyes and looks thoughtful. We need to work on this.
As Christian and I gaze at each other—me hot, bothered and yearning and him, relaxed and
amusedat my expense—I realize I have no food in the apartment.
“I could cook something—except we’ll have to go shopping.”
“Shopping?”
“For groceries.”
“You have no food here?” His expression hardens.
I shake my head. Crap, he looks quite angry.
“Let’s go shopping, then,” he says sternly as he turns on his heel and heads for the door, opening
it wide for me.
“When was the last time you were in a supermarket?”
Christian looks out of place, but he follows me dutifully, holding a shopping basket.
“I can’t remember.”
“Does Mrs. Jones do all the shopping?”
“I think Taylor helps her. I’m not sure.”
“Are you happy with a stir-fry? It’s quick.”
“Stir-fry sounds good.” Christian grins, no doubt figuring out my ulterior motive for a speedy
meal.
“Have they worked for you long?”
“Taylor, four years, I think. Mrs. Jones about the same. Why didn’t you have any food in the
apartment?”
“You know why,” I murmur, flushing.
“It was you who left me,” he mutters disapprovingly.
“I know,” I reply in a small voice, not wanting that reminder.
We reach the checkout and silently stand in line.
If I hadn’t left, would he have offered the vanilla alternative? I wonder idly.
“Do you have anything to drink?” He pulls me back to the present.
“Beer... I think.”
“I’ll get some wine.”
Oh dear. I’m not sure what sort of wine is available in Ernie’s Supermarket. Christian remerges
empty handed, grimacing with a look of disgust.
“There’s a good liquor store next door,” I say quickly.
“I’ll see what they have.”
Maybe we should just go to his place, then we wouldn’t have all this hassle. I watch as he strollspurposefully and with easy grace out of the door. Two women coming in stop and stare. Oh yes, eye
my Fifty Shades, I think despondently.
I want the memory of him in my bed, but he’s playing hard to get. Maybe I should, too. My inner
goddess nods frantically in agreement. And as I stand in line, we come up with a plan. Hmm...
Christian carries the grocery bags into the apartment. He’s carried them as we’ve walked back to the
apartment from the store. He looks odd. Not his usual CEO demeanor at all.
“You look very—domestic.”
“No one has ever accused me of that before,” he says dryly. He places the bags on the kitchen
island. As I start to unload them, he takes out a bottle of white wine and searches for a corkscrew.
“This place is still new to me. I think the opener is in that drawer there.” I point with my chin.
This feels so... normal. Two people, getting to know each other, having a meal. Yet it’s so
strange. The fear that I’d always felt in his presence has gone. We’ve already done so much together, I
blush just thinking about it, and yet I hardly know him.
“What are you thinking about?” Christian interrupts my reverie as he shrugs out of his pinstripe
jacket and places it on the couch.
“How little I know you, really.”
He gazes at me and his eyes soften. “You know me better than anyone.”
“I don’t think that’s true.” Mrs. Robinson comes unbidden, and very unwelcome, into my mind.
“It is, Anastasia. I am a very, very private person.”
He hands me a glass of white wine.
“Cheers,” he says.
“Cheers,” I respond taking a sip as he puts the bottle in the fridge.
“Can I help you with that?” he asks.
“No it’s fine... sit.”
“I’d like to help.” His expression is sincere.
“You can chop the vegetables.”
“I don’t cook,” he says, regarding the knife I hand him with suspicion.
“I imagine you don’t need to.” I place a chopping board and some red peppers in front of him. He
stares down at them in confusion.
“You’ve never chopped a vegetable?”
“No.”
I smirk at him.
“Are you smirking at me?”
“It appears this is something that I can do and you can’t. Let’s face it, Christian, I think this is a
first. Here, I’ll show you.”
I brush up against him and he steps back. My inner goddess sits up and takes notice.
“Like this.” I slice the red pepper, careful to remove the seeds.
“Looks simple enough.”
“You shouldn’t have any trouble with it,” I mutter ironically.
He gazes at me impassively for a moment then sets about his task as I continue to prepare the
diced chicken. He starts to slice, carefully, slowly. Oh my, we’ll be here all day.
I wash my hands and hunt for the wok, the oil, and the other ingredients I need, repeatedly
brushing against him—my hip, my arm, my back, my hands. Small, seemingly innocent touches. Hestills each time I do.
“I know what you’re doing, Anastasia,” he murmurs darkly, still preparing the first pepper.
“I think it’s called cooking,” I say, fluttering my eyelashes. Grabbing another knife, I join him at
the chopping board peeling and slicing garlic, shallots, and French beans, continually bumping against
him.
“You’re quite good at this,” he mutters as he starts on his second red pepper.
“Chopping?” I bat my eyelashes at him. “Years of practice.” I brush against him again, this time
with my behind. He stills once more.
“If you do that again, Anastasia, I am going to take you on the kitchen floor.”
Oh, wow. It’s working. “You’ll have to beg me first.”
“Is that a challenge?”
“Maybe.”
He puts down his knife and saunters slowly over to me, his eyes burning. Leaning past me, he
switches the gas off. The oil in the wok quiets almost immediately.
“I think we’ll eat later,” he says. “Put the chicken in the fridge.”
This is not a sentence I had ever expected to hear from Christian Grey, and only he can make it
sound hot, really hot. I pick up the bowl of diced chicken, rather shakily place a plate on top of it, and
stow it in the fridge. When I turn back, he’s beside me.
“So you’re going to beg?” I whisper, bravely gazing into his darkening eyes.
“No, Anastasia.” He shakes his head. “No begging.” His voice is soft, seductive.
And we stand staring at each other, drinking each other in—the atmosphere charging between us,
almost crackling, neither saying anything, just looking. I bite my lip as desire for this beautiful man
seizes me with a vengeance, igniting my blood, shallowing my breath, pooling below my waist. I see
my reactions reflected in his stance, in his eyes.
In a beat, he grabs me by my hips and pulls me to him as my hands reach for his hair and his
mouth claims me. He pushes me against the fridge, and I hear the vague protesting rattle of bottles and
jars from within as his tongue finds mine. I moan into his mouth, and one of his hands moves into my
hair, pulling my head back as we kiss, savagely.
“What do you want, Anastasia?” he breathes.
“You.” I gasp.
“Where?”
“Bed.”
He breaks free, scoops me into his arms, and carries me quickly and seemingly without any strain
into my bedroom. Setting me on my feet beside my bed, he leans down and switches on my bedside
lamp. He glances quickly round the room and hastily closes the pale cream curtains.
“Now what?” he says softly.
“Make love to me.”
“How?”
Jeez.
“You have got to tell me, baby.”
Holy crap. “Undress me.” I am panting already.
He smiles and hooks his index finger into my open shirt, pulling me toward him.
“Good girl,” he murmurs, and without taking his blazing eyes off mine, slowly starts to unbutton
my shirt.
Tentatively I put my hands on his arms to steady myself. He doesn’t complain. His arms are a
safe area. When he’s finished with the buttons, he pulls my shirt over my shoulders, and I let go of
him to let the shirt fall to the floor. He reaches down to the waistband of my jeans, pops the button,and pulls down the zipper.
“Tell me what you want, Anastasia.” His eyes smolder and his lips part as he takes quick shallow
breaths.
“Kiss me from here to here,” I whisper trailing my finger from the base of my ear, down my
throat. He smoothes my hair out of the line of fire and bends, leaving sweet soft kisses along the path
my finger took and then back again.
“My jeans and panties,” I murmur, and he smiles against my throat before he drops to his knees
in front of me. Oh, I feel so powerful. Hooking his thumbs into my jeans, he gently pulls them and my
panties down my legs. I step out of my pumps and my clothes so that I’m left wearing only my bra. He
stops and looks up at me expectantly, but he doesn’t get up.
“What now, Anastasia?”
“Kiss me,” I whisper.
“Where?”
“You know where.”
“Where?”
Oh, he’s taking no prisoners. Embarrassed I quickly point at the apex of my thighs, and he grins
wickedly. I close my eyes, mortified, but at the same time beyond aroused.
“Oh, with pleasure,” he chuckles. He kisses me and unleashes his tongue, his joy-inspiring expert
tongue. I groan and fist my hands into his hair. He doesn’t stop, his tongue circling my clitoris,
driving me insane, on and on, round and round. Ahhh... it’s only been... how long...? Oh...
“Christian, please,” I beg. I don’t want to come standing up. I don’t have the strength.
“Please what, Anastasia?”
“Make love to me.”
“I am,” he murmurs, gently blowing against me.
“No. I want you inside me.”
“Are you sure?”
“Please.”
He doesn’t stop his sweet, exquisite torture. I moan loudly.
“Christian... please.”
He stands and gazes down at me, and his lips glisten with the evidence of my arousal.
Holy cow...
“Well?” he asks.
“Well what?” I pant, staring up at him in frantic need.
“I’m still dressed.”
I gape at him in confusion.
Undress him? Yes, I can do this. I reach for his shirt and he steps back.
“Oh no,” he admonishes. Shit, he means his jeans.
Oh, and this gives me an idea. My inner goddess cheers loudly to the rafters, and I drop to my
knees in front of him. Rather clumsily and with shaking fingers, I undo his waistband and fly, then
yank down his jeans and boxers, and he springs free. Wow.
I peek up at him through my lashes, and he’s gazing at me with... what? Trepidation? Awe?
Surprise?
He steps out of his jeans and pulls off his socks, and I take hold of him in my hand and squeeze
tightly, pushing my hand back like he’s shown me before. He groans and tenses, and his breath hisses
through clenched teeth. Very tentatively, I put him in my mouth and suck—hard. Mmm, he tastes
good.
“Ahh. Ana... whoa, gently.”He cups my head tenderly, and I push him deeper into my mouth, pressing my lips together as
tightly as I can, sheathing my teeth, and sucking hard.
“Fuck,” he hisses.
Oh, that’s a good, inspiring, sexy sound, so I do it again, pulling his length deeper, swirling my
tongue around the end. Hmm... I feel like Aphrodite.
“Ana, that’s enough. No more.”
I do it again—Beg, Grey, beg—and again.
“Ana, you’ve made your point,” he grunts through gritted teeth. “I do not want to come in your
mouth.”
I do it once more, and he bends down, grasps me by my shoulders, hauls me to my feet, and
tosses me on the bed. Dragging his shirt over his head, he then reaches down to his discarded jeans,
and like a good boy scout, produces a foil packet. He’s panting, like me.
“Take your bra off,” he orders.
I sit up and do as I’m told.
“Lie down. I want to look at you.”
I lie down, gazing up at him as he slowly rolls the condom on. I want him so badly. He stares
down at me and licks his lips.
“You are a fine sight, Anastasia Steele.” He bends over the bed and slowly crawls up and over
me, kissing me as he goes. He kisses each of my breasts and teases my nipples in turn, while I groan
and writhe beneath him, and he doesn’t stop.
No... Stop. I want you.
“Christian, please.”
“Please what?” he murmurs between my breasts.
“I want you inside me.”
“Do you now?”
“Please.”
Gazing at me, he pushes my legs apart with his and moves so that he’s hovering above me.
Without taking his eyes off mine, he sinks into me at a deliciously slow pace.
I close my eyes, relishing the fullness, the exquisite feeling of his possession, instinctively tilting
my pelvis up to meet him, to join with him, groaning loudly. He eases back and very slowly fills me
again. My fingers find their way into his silken unruly hair, and he oh-so-slowly moves in and out
again.
“Faster, Christian, faster... please.”
He gazes down at me in triumph and kisses me hard, then really starts to move—holy cow, a
punishing, relentless... oh fuck—and I know it will not be long. He sets a pounding rhythm. I start to
quicken, my legs tensing beneath him.
“Come on, baby,” he gasps. “Give it to me.”
His words are my undoing, and I explode, magnificently, mind-numbingly, into a million pieces
around him, and he follows calling out my name.
“Ana! Oh fuck, Ana!” He collapses on top of me, his head buried in my neck.As sanity returns, I open my eyes and gaze up into the face of the man I love. Christian’s expression is
soft, tender. He strokes his nose against mine, bearing his weight on his elbows, his hands holding
mine by the side of my head. Sadly, I suspect that’s so I don’t touch him. He plants a gentle kiss on
my lips as he eases himself out of me.
“I’ve missed this,” he breathes.
“Me too,” I whisper.
He takes hold of my chin and kisses me hard. A passionate, beseeching kiss, asking for what? I
don’t know. It leaves me breathless.
“Don’t leave me again,” he implores, looking deep into my eyes, his face serious.
“Okay,” I whisper and smile at him. His answering smile is dazzling; relief, elation, and boyish
delight combined into one enchanting look that would melt the coldest of hearts. “Thank you for the
iPad.”
“You are most welcome, Anastasia.”
“What’s your favorite song on there?”
“Now that would be telling.” He grins. “Come cook me some food, wench. I’m famished,” he
adds, sitting up suddenly and dragging me with him.
“Wench?” I giggle.
“Wench. Food, now, please.”
“Since you ask so nicely, sire, I’ll get right on to it.”
As I scramble out of bed, I dislodge my pillow, revealing the deflated helicopter balloon
underneath. Christian reaches for it and gazes up at me, puzzled.
“That’s my balloon,” I say, feeling proprietary as I reach for my robe and wrap it round myself.
Oh jeez... why did he have to find that?
“In your bed?” he murmurs.
“Yes,” I flush. “It’s been keeping me company.”
“Lucky Charlie Tango,” he says, in surprise.
Yes, I’m sentimental, Grey, because I love you.
“My balloon,” I say again and turn on my heel and head out to the kitchen, leaving him grinning
from ear to ear.Christian and I sit on Kate’s persian rug, eating stir-fry chicken and noodles from white china bowls
with chopsticks and sipping chilled white Pinot Grigio. Christian leans against the couch, his long legs
stretched out in front of him. He’s wearing his jeans and his shirt with his just-fucked hair, and that’s
all. The Buena Vista Social Club croons softly in the background from Christian’s iPod.
“This is good,” he says appreciatively as he digs into his food.
I sit cross-legged beside him, eating greedily, beyond hungry, and admire his naked feet.
“I usually do all the cooking. Kate isn’t a great cook.”
“Did you your mother teach you?”
“Not really,” I scoff. “By the time I was interested in learning, my mom was living with Husband
Number Three in Mansfield, Texas. And Ray, well, he would’ve lived on toast and takeout if it wasn’t
for me.”
Christian gazes down at me. “You didn’t stay in Texas with your mom?”
“No. Steve, her husband and I, we didn’t get along. And I missed Ray. Her marriage to Steve
didn’t last long. She came to her senses, I think. She never talks about him,” I add quietly. I think
that’s a dark part of her life, which we’ve never discussed.
“So you came back to Washington to live with your stepfather.”
“Yes.”
“Sounds like you looked after him,” he says softly.
“I suppose.” I shrug.
“You’re used to taking care of people.”
The edge in his voice attracts my attention, and I glance up at him.
“What is it?” I ask, startled by his wary expression.
“I want to take care of you.” His luminous eyes glow with some unnamed emotion.
My heart rate spikes.
“I’ve noticed,” I whisper. “You just go about it in a strange way.”
His brow creases. “It’s the only way I know how,” he says quietly.
“I’m still mad at you for buying SIP.”
He smiles. “I know but you being mad, baby, wouldn’t stop me.”
“What am I going to say to my work colleagues, to Jack?”
He narrows his eyes. “That fucker better watch himself.”
“Christian!” I admonish. “He’s my boss.”
Christian’s mouth presses into a hard line. He looks like a recalcitrant schoolboy.
“Don’t tell them,” he says.
“Don’t tell them what?”
“That I own it. The heads of agreement was signed yesterday. The news is embargoed for four
weeks while the management at SIP makes some changes.”
“Oh... will I be out of a job?” I ask, alarmed.
“I sincerely doubt it,” Christian says wryly, trying to stifle his smile.
I scowl. “If I leave and find another job, will you buy that company, too?”
“You’re not thinking of leaving, are you?” His expression alters, wary once more.
“Possibly. I’m not sure you’ve given me a great deal of choice.”
“Yes, I will buy that company, too.” He is adamant.
I scowl at him again. I am in a no-win situation here.
“Don’t you think you’re being a tad overprotective?”
“Yes. I am fully aware of how this looks.”
“Paging Dr. Flynn,” I murmur.
He puts down his empty bowl and gazes at me impassively. I sigh. I don’t want to fight. Standingup, I reach for his bowl.
“Would you like dessert?”
“Now you’re talking!” he says, giving me a lascivious grin.
“Not me.” Why not me? My inner goddess wakes from her doze and sits upright, all ears. “We
have ice cream. Vanilla.” I snicker.
“Really?” Christian’s grin gets bigger. “I think we could do something with that.”
What? I stare at him dumbfounded as he gracefully gets to his feet.
“Can I stay?” he asks.
“What do you mean?”
“The night.”
“I assumed that you were.” I flush.
“Good. Where’s the ice cream?”
“In the oven.” I smile sweetly at him.
He cocks his head to one side, sighs, and shakes his head at me. “Sarcasm is the lowest form of
wit, Miss Steele.” His eyes glitter.
Oh shit. What’s he planning?
“I could still take you across my knee.”
I place the bowls in the sink. “Do you have those silver ball things?”
He pats his hands down his chest, belly, and the pockets of his jeans. “Funnily enough, I don’t
carry a spare set around with me. Not much call for them in the office.”
“I am very glad to hear it, Mr. Grey, and I thought you said that sarcasm was the lowest form of
wit.”
“Well, Anastasia, my new motto is if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em.”
I gape at him—I can’t believe he’s just said that —and he looks sickeningly pleased with himself
as he grins at me. Turning, he opens the freezer and takes out the carton of Ben & Jerry’s finest
vanilla.
“This will do just fine.” He looks up at me, eyes dark. “Ben & Jerry’s & Ana.” He says each word
slowly, enunciating every syllable clearly.
Oh fucking my. I think my lower jaw is on the floor. He opens the cutlery drawer and grabs a
spoon. When he looks up, his are eyes hooded, and his tongue skims his top teeth. Oh, that tongue.
I feel winded. Desire, dark, sleek, and wanton runs hot through my veins. We’re going to have
fun, with food.
“I hope you’re warm,” he whispers. “I’m going to cool you down with this. Come.” He holds out
his hand, and I place mine in his.
In my bedroom he places the ice cream on my bedside table, pulls the duvet off the bed, and
removes both the pillows, placing them all in a pile on the floor.
“You have a change of sheets, don’t you?”
I nod, watching him, fascinated. He holds up Charlie Tango.
“Don’t mess with my balloon,” I warn.
His lips quirk upward in half a smile. “Wouldn’t dream of it, baby, but I do want to mess with
you and these sheets.”
My body practically convulses.
“I want to tie you up.”
Oh. “Okay,” I whisper.
“Just your hands. To the bed. I need you still.”
“Okay,” I whisper again, incapable of anything more.He strolls over to me, not taking his eyes off mine.
“We’ll use this.” He takes hold of my robe sash and with delicious, teasing slowness, releases the
bow, and gently pulls it free of the garment.
My robe falls open while I stand paralyzed under his heated gaze. After a moment, he pushes the
robe off my shoulders. It falls and pools at my feet so that I’m standing naked before him. He strokes
my face with the backs of his knuckles, and his touch resonates in the depths of my groin. Bending, he
kisses my lips briefly.
“Lie on the bed, face up,” he murmurs, his eyes darkening, burning into mine.
I do as I’m told. My room is shrouded in darkness except for the soft, insipid light from my lamp.
Normally, I hate energy-saving bulbs—they are so dim—but being naked here, with Christian,
I’m grateful for the muted light. He stands by the bed gazing down at me.
“I could look at you all day, Anastasia,” he says, and with that crawls on to the bed, up my body,
and straddles me.
“Arms above your head,” he commands.
I comply and he fastens the end of my robe sash round my left wrist and threads the end through
the metal bars at the head of my bed. He pulls it tight so my left arm is flexed above me. He then
secures my right hand, tying the sash tightly.
When I’m tied-up, staring at him, he visibly relaxes. He likes me tethered. I can’t touch him this
way. It occurs to me that none of his subs would have touched him either—and what’s more, they
would never have the opportunity to. He would have always been in control and at a distance. That’s
why he likes his rules.
He climbs off me and bends to give me a quick peck on the lips. Then he stands and lifts his shirt
over his head. He undoes his jeans and drops them to the floor.
He is gloriously naked. My inner goddess is doing a triple axel dismount off the uneven bars, and
abruptly my mouth is dry. He really is beyond beautiful. He has a physique drawn on classical lines:
broad muscular shoulders, narrow hips, the inverted triangle. He obviously works out. I could look at
him all day. He moves to the end of the bed and grasps my ankles, pulling me swiftly and sharply
downward so that my arms are stretched out and unable to move.
“That’s better,” he mutters.
Picking up the tub of ice cream, he climbs smoothly back onto the bed to straddle me once more.
Very slowly, he peels off the lid of the tub and dips the spoon in.
“Hmm... it’s still quite hard,” he says with a raised brow. Scooping out a spoonful of the vanilla,
he pops it into his mouth. “Delicious,” he murmurs, licking his lips. “Amazing how good plain old
vanilla can taste.” He gazes down at me and smirks. “Want some?” he teases.
He looks so freaking hot, young and carefree—sitting on me and eating from a tub of ice cream—
eyes bright, face luminous. Oh what the hell is he going to do to me? As if I can’t tell. I nod, shyly.
He scoops out another spoonful and offers me the spoon, so I open my mouth, then he quickly
pops it in his mouth again.
“This is too good to share,” he says, smiling wickedly.
“Hey,” I start in protest.
“Why, Miss Steele, do you like your vanilla?”
“Yes,” I say more forcefully than I mean and try in vain to buck him off.
He laughs. “Getting feisty, are we? I wouldn’t do that if I were you.”
“Ice cream,” I plead.
“Well, as you’ve pleased me so much today, Miss Steele.” He relents and offers me another
spoonful. This time he lets me eat it.
I want to giggle. He’s really enjoying himself, and his good humor is infectious. He scoopsanother spoonful and feeds me some more, then he does it again. Okay, enough.
“Hmm, well, this is one way to ensure you eat—force-feed you. I could get used to this.”
Taking another spoonful, he offers me more. This time I keep my mouth shut and shake my head,
and he lets it slowly melt on the spoon so that the melted ice cream drips, onto my throat, onto my
chest. He dips down and very slowly licks it off. My body lights up with longing.
“Mmm. Tastes even better off you, Miss Steele.”
I pull against my restraints and the bed creaks ominously, but I don’t care—I’m burning with
desire, it’s consuming me. He takes another spoonful and lets the ice cream dribble onto my breasts.
Then with the back of the spoon, he spreads it over each breast and nipple.
Oh... it’s cold. Each nipple peaks and hardens beneath the cool of the vanilla.
“Cold?” Christian asks softly and bends to lick and suckle all the ice cream off me once more, his
mouth hot compared to the cool of the ice.
Oh my. It’s torture. As it starts to melt, the ice cream runs off me in rivulets on to the bed. His
lips continue their slow torture, sucking hard, nuzzling, softly—Oh please!—I’m panting.
“Want some?” And before I can confirm or deny his offer, his tongue is in my mouth, and it’s
cold and skilled and tastes of Christian and vanilla. Delicious.
And just as I am getting used to the sensation, he sits up again and trails a spoonful of ice cream
down the center of my body, across my stomach, and into my navel where he deposits a large dollop
of ice cream. Oh, this is chillier than before, but weirdly it burns.
“Now, you’ve done this before.” Christian’s eyes shine. “You’re going to have to stay still, or
there will be ice cream all over the bed.” He kisses each of my breasts and sucks each of my nipples
hard, then follows the line of ice cream down my body, sucking and licking as he goes.
And I try, I try to stay still despite the heady combination of cold and his inflaming touch. But
my hips start to move involuntarily, gyrating to their own rhythm, caught up in his cool vanilla spell.
He shifts lower and starts eating the ice cream in my belly, swirling his tongue into and around my
navel.
I moan. Holy cow. It’s cold, it’s hot, it’s tantalizing, but he doesn’t stop. He trails the ice cream
further down my body, into my pubic hair, on to my clitoris. I cry out, loudly.
“Hush now,” Christian says softly as his magical tongue sets to work lapping up the vanilla, and
now I’m keening quietly.
“Oh... please... Christian.”
“I know, baby, I know,” he breathes as his tongue works its magic. He doesn’t stop, just doesn’t
stop, and my body is climbing—higher, higher. He slips one finger inside me, then another and he
moves them with agonizing slowness in and out.
“Just here,” he murmurs, and he rhythmically strokes the front wall of my vagina while he
continues the exquisite, relentless licking and sucking. Holy fucking cow.
I erupt unexpectedly into a mind-blowing orgasm that stuns all my senses, obliterating all that’s
happening outside of my body as I writhe and groan. Jeez, that was so quick.
I am vaguely aware that he has stopped his ministrations. He’s hovering over me, sliding on a
condom, and then he’s inside me, hard and fast.
“Oh yes!” He groans as he slams into me. He’s sticky—the residual melted ice cream spreading
between us. It’s a strangely distracting sensation, but one I can’t dwell on for more than a few seconds
as Christian suddenly pulls out of me and flips me over.
“This way,” he murmurs and abruptly is inside me once more, but he doesn’t start his usual
punishing rhythm straight away. He leans over, releases my hands, and pulls me upright so I am
practically sitting on him. His hands move up to my breasts, and he palms them both, tugging gentlyon my nipples. I groan, tossing my head back against his shoulder. He nuzzles my neck, biting down,
as he flexes his hips, deliciously slowly, filling me again and again.
“Do you know how much you mean to me?” he breathes against my ear.
“No,” I gasp.
He smiles against my neck, and his fingers curl around my jaw and throat, holding me fast for a
moment.
“Yes, you do. I’m not going to let you go.”
I groan as he picks up speed.
“You are mine, Anastasia.”
“Yes, yours,” I pant.
“I take care of what’s mine,” he hisses and bites my ear.
I cry out.
“That’s right, baby, I want to hear you.” He snakes one hand around my waist while his other
hand grasps my hip, and he pushes into me harder, making me cry out again. And the punishing
rhythm starts. His breathing grows harsher and harsher, ragged, matching mine. I feel the familiar
quickening deep inside. Jeez again!
I am just sensation. This is what he does to me—takes my body and possesses it wholly so that I
think of nothing but him. His magic is powerful, intoxicating. I’m a butterfly caught in his net, unable
and unwilling to escape. I’m his... totally his.
“Come on, baby,” he growls through gritted teeth and on cue, like the sorcerer’s apprentice I am,
I let go, and we find our release together.
I am lying curled up in his arms on sticky sheets. His front is pressed to my back, his nose in my hair.
“What I feel for you frightens me,” I whisper.
He stills. “Me too, baby,” he says quietly.
“What if you leave me?” The thought is horrific.
“I’m not going anywhere. I don’t think I could ever have my fill of you, Anastasia.”
I turn and gaze at him. His expression is serious, sincere. I lean over and kiss him gently. He
smiles and reaches up to tuck my hair behind my ear.
“I’ve never felt the way I felt when you left, Anastasia. I would move heaven and earth to avoid
feeling like that again.” He sounds so sad, dazed even.
I kiss him again. I want to lighten our mood somehow, but Christian does it for me.
“Will you come with me to my father’s summer party tomorrow? It’s an annual charity thing. I
said I’d go.”
I smile, feeling suddenly shy.
“Of course I’ll come.” Oh shit. I have nothing to wear.
“What?”
“Nothing.”
“Tell me,” he insists.
“I have nothing to wear.”
Christian looks momentarily uncomfortable.
“Don’t be mad, but I still have all those clothes for you at home. I am sure there are a couple of
dresses in there.”
I purse my lips. “Do you, now?” I mutter, my voice sardonic. I don’t want to fight with himtonight. I need a shower.
The girl who looks like me is standing outside SIP. Hang on—she is me. I am pale and unwashed, and
all my clothes are too big; I’m staring at her, and she’s wearing my clothes—happy, healthy.
“What do you have that I don’t?” I ask her.
“Who are you?”
“I’m nobody... Who are you? Are you nobody, too...?”
“Then there’s a pair of us—don’t tell, they’d banish us, you know...” [1] She smiles, a slow, evil
grimace that spreads across her face, and it’s so chilling that I start to scream.
“Jesus, Ana!” Christian is shaking me awake.
I am so disorientated. I’m at home... in the dark... in bed with Christian. I shake my head, trying
to clear my mind.
“Baby, are you okay? You were having a bad dream.”
“Oh.”
He switches on the lamp so we’re bathed in its dim light. He gazes down at me, his face etched
with concern.
“The girl,” I whisper.
“What is it? What girl?” he asks soothingly.
“There was a girl outside SIP when I left this evening. She looked like me... but not really.”
Christian stills, and as the light from the bedside lamp warms up, I see his face is ashen.
“When was this?” he whispers, dismayed. He sits up, staring down at me.
“When I left this afternoon. Do you know who she is?”
“Yes.” He runs a hand through his hair.
“Who?”
His mouth presses into a hard line, but he says nothing.
“Who?” I press.
“It’s Leila.”
I swallow. The ex-sub! I remember Christian talking about her before we went gliding. Suddenly,
he’s radiating tension. Something is going on.
“The girl who put ‘Toxic’ on your iPod?”
He glances at me anxiously.
“Yes,” he says. “Did she say anything?”
“She said, ‘what do you have that I don’t have?’ and when I asked who she was, she said,
‘nobody.’ ”
Christian closes his eyes as if in pain. Oh no. What’s happened? What does she mean to him?
My scalp prickles as adrenaline spikes through my body. What if she means a lot to him? Perhaps
he misses her? I know so little about his past... um, relationships. She must have had a contract, and
she would have done what he wanted, given him what he needed gladly.
Oh no—when I can’t. The thought makes me nauseous.
Climbing out of bed, Christian drags on his jeans and heads into the main room. A glance at myalarm clock shows it’s five in the morning. I roll out of bed, putting his white shirt on, and follow him.
Holy shit, he’s on the phone.
“Yes, outside SIP, yesterday... early evening,” he says quietly. He turns to me as I move toward
the kitchen and asks me directly, “What time exactly?”
“About ten to six?” I mumble. Who on earth is he calling at this hour? What’s Leila done? He
relays the information to whoever’s on the line, not taking his eyes off me, his expression dark and
earnest.
“Find out how... Yes... I wouldn’t have said so, but then I wouldn’t have thought she could do
this.” He closes his eyes as if he’s in pain. “I don’t know how that will go down... Yes, I’ll talk to her...
Yes... I know... Follow it up and let me know. Just find her, Welch—she’s in trouble. Find her.” He
hangs up.
“Do you want some tea?” I ask. Tea, Ray’s answer to every crisis and the only thing he does well
in the kitchen. I fill the kettle with water.
“Actually, I’d like to go back to bed.” His look tells me that it’s not to sleep.
“Well, I need some tea. Would you like to join me for a cup?” I want to know what’s going on. I
will not be sidetracked by sex.
He runs his hand through his hair in exasperation. “Yes, please,” he says, but I can tell he’s
irritated.
I put the kettle on the stove and busy myself with teacups and the teapot. My anxiety level has
shot to defcon one. Is he going to tell me the problem? Or am I going to have to dig?
I sense his eyes on me—sense his uncertainty, and his anger is palpable. I glance up, and his eyes
glitter with apprehension.
“What is it?” I ask softly.
He shakes his head.
“You’re not going to tell me?”
He sighs and closes his eyes. “No.”
“Why?”
“Because it shouldn’t concern you. I don’t want you tangled up in this.”
“It shouldn’t concern me, but it does. She found me and accosted me outside my office. How
does she know about me? How does she know where I work? I think I have a right to know what’s
going on.”
He runs a hand through his hair again, radiating frustration as if waging some internal battle.
“Please?” I ask softly.
His mouth sets into a hard line, and he rolls his eyes at me.
“Okay,” he says, resigned. “I have no idea how she found you. Maybe the photograph of us in
Portland, I don’t know.” He sighs again, and I sense his frustration is directed at himself.
I wait patiently, pouring boiling water into the teapot as he paces back and forth. After a beat he
continues.
“While I was with you in Georgia, Leila turned up at my apartment unannounced and made a
scene in front of Gail.”
“Gail?”
“Mrs. Jones.”
“What do you mean, ‘made a scene’?”
He glares at me, appraising.
“Tell me. You’re keeping something back.” My tone is more forceful than I feel.
He blinks at me, surprised. “Ana, I—” he stops.
“Please?”He sighs in defeat. “She made a haphazard attempt to open a vein.”
“Oh no!” That explains the bandage on her wrist.
“Gail got her to hospital. But Leila discharged herself before I could get there.”
Crap. What does this mean? Suicidal? Why?
“The shrink who saw her called it a typical cry for help. He didn’t believe her to be truly at risk—
one step from suicidal ideation, he called it. But I’m not convinced. I’ve been trying to track her down
since then to get her some help.”
“Did she say anything to Mrs. Jones?”
He gazes at me. He looks really uncomfortable.
“Not much,” he says eventually, but I know he’s not telling me everything.
I distract myself with pouring tea into teacups. So Leila wants back into Christian’s life and
chooses a suicide attempt to attract his attention? Whoa... scary. But effective. Christian left Georgia
to be at her side, but she disappears before he gets there? How odd.
“You can’t find her? What about her family?”
“They don’t know where she is. Neither does her husband.”
“Husband?”
“Yes,” he says distractedly, “she’s been married for about two years.”
What? “So she was with you while she was married?” Holy fuck. He really has no boundaries.
“No! Good God, no. She was with me nearly three years ago. Then she left and married this guy
shortly afterward.”
Oh. “So why is she trying to get your attention now?”
He shakes his head sadly. “I don’t know. All we’ve managed to find out is that she ran out on her
husband about four months ago.”
“Let me get this straight. She hasn’t been your submissive for three years?”
“About two and a half years.”
“And she wanted more.”
“Yes.”
“But you didn’t?”
“You know this.”
“So she left you.”
“Yes.”
“So why is she coming to you now?”
“I don’t know.” And the tone of this voice tells me that he at least has a theory.
“But you suspect...”
His eyes narrow perceptibly with anger. “I suspect it has something to do with you.”
Me? What would she want with me? “What do you have that I don’t?”
I stare at Fifty, magnificently naked from the waist up. I have him; he’s mine. That’s what I have,
and yet she looked like me: same dark hair and pale skin. I frown at the thought. Yes... what do I have
that she doesn’t?
“Why didn’t you tell me yesterday?” he asks softly.
“I forgot about her.” I shrug apologetically. “You know, drinks after work, at the end of my first
week. You turning up at the bar and your... testosterone rush with Jack, and then when we were here. It
slipped my mind. You have a habit of making me forget things.”
“Testosterone rush?” His lips twitch.
“Yes. The pissing contest.”
“I’ll show you a testosterone rush.”“Wouldn’t you rather have a cup of tea?”
“No, Anastasia, I wouldn’t.”
His eyes burn into me, scorching me with his I-want-you-and-I-want-you-now look. Fuck... it’s
so hot.
“Forget about her. Come.” He holds out his hand.
My inner goddess does three back flips over the gym floor as I grasp his hand.
I wake, too warm, and I’m wrapped around a naked Christian Grey. Even though he’s fast asleep, he’s
holding me close. Soft morning light filters through the curtains. My head is on his chest, my leg
tangled with his, my arm across his stomach.
I raise my head slightly, scared that I might wake him. He looks so young, so relaxed in sleep, so
utterly beautiful. I can’t quite believe this Adonis is mine, all mine.
Hmm... Reaching up, I tentatively stroke his chest, running my fingertips through the smattering
of hair, and he doesn’t stir. Holy cow. I can’t quite believe it. He’s really mine—for a few more
precious moments. I lean over and tenderly kiss one of his scars. He moans softly but doesn’t wake,
and I smile. I kiss another and his eyes open.
“Hi.” I grin at him, guiltily.
“Hi,” he answers warily. “What are you doing?”
“Looking at you.” I run my fingers down his happy trail. He captures my hand, narrows his eyes,
then smiles a brilliant Christian-at-ease smile, and I relax. My secret touching stays secret.
Oh... why won’t you let me touch you?
Suddenly he moves on top of me, pressing me into the mattress, his hands on mine, warning me.
He strokes my nose with his.
“I think you’re up to no good, Miss Steele,” he accuses but his smile remains.
“I like being up to no good near you.”
“You do?” he asks and kisses me lightly on the lips. “Sex or breakfast?” he asks, his eyes dark
but full of humor. His erection is digging into me, and I tilt my pelvis up to meet him.
“Good choice,” he murmurs against my throat, as he trails kisses down to my breast.
I stand at my chest of drawers, staring at my mirror, trying to coax my hair into some semblance of
style—really, it’s just too long. I’m in jeans and a T-shirt, and Christian, freshly showered, is dressing
behind me. I gaze at his body hungrily.
“How often do you work out?” I ask.
“Every weekday,” he says, buttoning his fly.
“What do you do?”
“Run, weights, kickbox.” He shrugs.
“Kickbox?”
“Yes, I have a personal trainer, an ex-Olympic contender who teaches me. His name is Claude.
He’s very good. You’d like him.”
I turn to gaze at him as he starts to button up his white shirt.
“What do you mean I’d like him?”“You’d like him as a trainer.”
“Why would I need a personal trainer? I have you to keep me fit.” I smirk at him.
He saunters over and wraps his arms around me, his darkening eyes meeting mine in the mirror.
“But I want you fit, baby, for what I have in mind. I’ll need you to keep up.”
I flush as memories of the playroom flood my mind. Yes... the Red Room of Pain is exhausting.
Is he going to let me back in there? Do I want to go back in?
Of course you do! My inner goddess screams at me from her chaise longue.
I stare into his unfathomable, mesmerizing gray eyes.
“You know you want to,” he mouths at me.
I flush, and the undesirable thought that Leila could probably keep up slithers invidious and
unwelcome into my mind. I press my lips together and Christian frowns at me.
“What?” he asks, concerned.
“Nothing.” I shake my head at him. “Okay, I’ll meet Claude.”
“You will?” Christian’s face lights up in astounded disbelief. His expression makes me smile He
looks like he’s won the lottery, though Christian’s probably never even bought a ticket—he has no
need.
“Yes, jeez—if it makes you that happy,” I scoff.
He tightens his arms around me and kisses my cheek. “You have no idea,” he whispers. “So—
what would you like to do today?” He nuzzles me, sending delicious tingles through my body.
“I’d like to get my hair cut, and um... I need to bank a check and buy a car.”
“Ah,” he says knowingly and bites his lip. Taking one hand off me, he reaches into his jeans
pocket and holds up the key to my little Audi.
“It’s here,” he says quietly, his expression uncertain.
“What do you mean, it’s here?” Boy. I sound angry. Crap. I am angry. My subconscious glares at
him. How dare he!
“Taylor brought it back yesterday.”
I open my mouth then close it and repeat the process twice, but I have been rendered speechless.
He’s giving me back the car. Double crap. Why didn’t I foresee this? Well, two can play at that game.
I fish in the back pocket of my jeans and pull out the envelope with his check.
“Here, this is yours.”
Christian looks at me quizzically, then recognizing the envelope, raises both his hands and steps
away from me.
“Oh no. That’s your money.”
“No, it isn’t. I’d like to buy the car from you.”
His expression changes completely. Fury—yes, fury—sweeps across his face.
“No, Anastasia. Your money, your car,” he snaps at me.
“No, Christian. My money, your car. I’ll buy it from you.”
“I gave you that car for your graduation present.”
“If you’d given me a pen—that would be a suitable graduation present. You gave me an Audi.”
“Do you really want to argue about this?”
“No.”
“Good—here are the keys.” He puts them on the chest of drawers.
“That’s not what I meant!”
“End of discussion, Anastasia. Don’t push me.”
I scowl at him, then inspiration hits me. Taking the envelope, I rip it in two, then two again and
drop the contents into my waste bin. Oh, that feels good.Christian gazes at me impassively, but I know I’ve just lit the blue touch paper and should stand
well back. He strokes his chin.
“You are, as ever, challenging, Miss Steele,” he says dryly. He turns on his heel and stalks into
the other room. That is not the reaction I expected. I was anticipating full scale Armageddon. I stare at
myself in the mirror and shrug, deciding on a ponytail.
My curiosity is piqued. What is Fifty doing? I follow him into the room, and he’s on the phone.
“Yes, twenty-four thousand dollars. Directly.”
He glances up at me, still impassive.
“Good... Monday? Excellent... No that’s all, Andrea.”
He snaps the phone shut.
“Deposited in your bank account, Monday. Don’t play games with me.” He’s boiling mad, but I
don’t care.
“Twenty-four thousand dollars!” I’m almost screaming. “And how do you know my account
number?”
My ire takes Christian by surprise.
“I know everything about you, Anastasia,” he says quietly.
“There’s no way my car was worth twenty-four thousand dollars.”
“I would agree with you, but it’s about knowing your market, whether you’re buying or selling.
Some lunatic out there wanted that death trap and was willing to pay that amount of money.
Apparently, it’s a classic. Ask Taylor if you don’t believe me.”
I glower at him and he glowers back, two angry stubborn fools glaring at each other.
And I feel it, the pull—the electricity between us—tangible, drawing us together. Suddenly he
grabs me and pushes me up against the door, his mouth on mine, claiming me hungrily, one hand on
my behind pressing me to his groin and the other in the nape of my hair, tugging my head back. My
fingers are in his hair, twisting hard, holding him to me. He grinds his body into mine, imprisoning
me, his breathing ragged. I feel him. He wants me, and I’m heady and reeling with excitement as I
acknowledge his need for me.
“Why, why do you defy me?” he mumbles between his heated kisses.
My blood sings in my veins. Will he always have this effect on me? And I on him?
“Because I can.” I’m breathless. I feel rather than see his smile against my neck, and he presses
his forehead to mine.
“Lord, I want to take you now, but I’m out of condoms. I can never get enough of you. You’re a
maddening, maddening woman.”
“And you make me mad,” I whisper. “In every way.”
He shakes his head. “Come. Let’s go out for breakfast. And I know a place you can get your hair
cut.”
“Okay,” I acquiesce and just like that, our fight is over.
“I’ll get this.” I pick up the tab for breakfast before he does.
He scowls at me.
“You have to be quick around here, Grey.”
“You’re right, I do,” he says sourly, though I think he’s teasing.
“Don’t look so cross. I’m twenty-four thousand dollars richer than I was this morning. I can
afford”—I glance at the check—“twenty-two dollars and sixty-seven cents for breakfast.”“Thank you,” he says grudgingly. Oh, the sulky schoolboy is back.
“Where to now?”
“You really want your hair cut?”
“Yes, look at it.”
“You look lovely to me. You always do.”
I blush and stare down at my fingers knotted in my lap. “And there’s your father’s function this
evening.”
“Remember, it’s black tie.”
Oh Jeez. “Where is it?”
“At my parents’ house. They have a marquee. You know, the works.”
“What’s the charity?”
Christian rubs his hands down his thighs, looking uncomfortable.
“It’s a drug rehab program for parents with young kids called Coping Together.”
“Sounds like a good cause,” I say softly.
“Come, let’s go.” He stands, effectively halting that topic of conversation and holds out his hand.
As I take it, he tightens his fingers around mine.
It’s strange. He’s so demonstrative in some ways and yet so closed in others. He leads me out of
the restaurant, and we walk down the street. It is a lovely, mild morning. The sun is shining, and the
air smells of coffee and freshly baked bread.
“Where are we going?”
“Surprise.”
Oh, okay. I don’t really like surprises.
We walk for two blocks, and the stores become decidedly more exclusive. I haven’t yet had an
opportunity to explore, but this really is just around the corner from where I live. Kate will be pleased.
There are plenty of small boutiques to feed her fashion passion. Actually, I need to buy some floaty
skirts for work.
Christian stops outside a large, slick-looking beauty salon and opens the door for me. It’s called
Esclava. The interior is all white and leather. At the stark white reception desk sits a young blond
woman in a crisp white uniform. She glances up as we enter.
“Good morning, Mr. Grey,” she says brightly, color rising in her cheeks as she bats her eyelashes
at him. It’s the Grey effect, but she knows him! How?
“Hello Greta.”
And he knows her. What is this?
“Is this the usual, sir?” she asks politely. She’s wearing very pink lipstick.
“No,” he says quickly, with a nervous glance at me.
The usual? What does that mean?
Holy fuck! It’s Rule no 6, the damned beauty salon. All the waxing nonsense... shit!
This is where he brought all his subs? Maybe Leila, too? What the hell am I supposed to make of
this?
“Miss Steele will tell you what she wants.”
I glare at him. He’s introducing the Rules by stealth. I’ve agreed to the personal trainer—and now
this?
“Why here?” I hiss at him.
“I own this place, and three more like it.”
“You own it?” I gasp in surprise. Well, that’s unexpected.
“Yes. It’s a sideline. Anyway—whatever you want, you can have it here, on the house. All sorts
of massage; Swedish, shiatsu, hot stones, reflexology, seaweed baths, facials, all that stuff that womenlike—everything. It’s done here.” He waves his long-fingered hand dismissively.
“Waxing?”
He laughs. “Yes waxing, too. Everywhere,” he whispers conspiratorially, enjoying my
discomfort.
I blush and glance at Greta, who is looking at me expectantly.
“I’d like a haircut, please.”
“Certainly, Miss Steele.”
Greta is all pink lipstick and bustling Germanic efficiency as she checks her computer screen.
“Franco is free in five minutes.”
“Franco’s fine,” says Christian reassuringly to me. I am trying to wrap my head around this.
Christian Grey CEO owns a chain of beauty salons.
I peek up at him, and suddenly he blanches—something, or someone, has caught his eye. I turn to
see where he’s looking, and right at the back of the salon a sleek platinum blonde has appeared,
closing a door behind her and speaking to one of the hair stylists.
Platinum Blonde is tall, tanned, lovely, and in her late thirties or forties—it’s difficult to tell.
She’s wearing the same uniform as Greta, but in black. She looks stunning. Her hair shines like a halo,
cut in sharp bob. As she turns, she catches sight of Christian and smiles at him, a dazzling smile of
warm recognition.
“Excuse me,” Christian mumbles hurriedly.
He strides quickly through the salon, past the hair stylists all in white, past the apprentices at the
sinks, and over to her, too far away for me to hear their conversation. Platinum Blonde greets him with
obvious affection, kissing both his cheeks, her hands resting on his upper arms, and they talk
animatedly together.
“Miss Steele?”
Greta the receptionist is trying to get my attention.
“Hang on a moment, please.” I watch Christian, fascinated.
Platinum Blonde turns and looks at me, and gives me the same dazzling smile, as if she knows
me. I smile politely back.
Christian looks upset about something. He’s reasoning with her, and she’s acquiescing, holding
her hands up and smiling at him. He’s smiling at her—clearly they know each other well. Perhaps
they’ve worked together for a long time? Maybe she runs the place; after all, she has a certain look of
authority.
Then it hits me like a wrecking ball, and I know, deep down in my gut on a visceral level, I know
who it is. It’s her. Stunning, older, beautiful.
It’s Mrs. Robinson.
[1]
Emily Dickinson, “I’m Nobody! Who are you?” first stanza
.“Greta, who is Mr. Grey talking to?” My scalp is trying to leave the building. It’s prickling with
apprehension, and my subconscious is screaming at me to follow it. But I sound nonchalant enough.
“Oh, that’s Mrs. Lincoln. She owns the place with Mr. Grey.” Greta seems more than happy to
share.
“Mrs. Lincoln?” I thought Mrs. Robinson was divorced. Perhaps she’s remarried to some poor
sap.
“Yes. She’s not usually here, but one of our technicians is sick today so she’s filling in.”
“Do you know Mrs. Lincoln’s first name?”
Greta looks up at me, frowning, and purses her bright pink lips, questioning my curiosity. Shit,
perhaps this is a step too far.
“Elena,” she says, almost reluctantly.
I’m swamped by a strange sense of relief that my spidey sense has not let me down.
Spidey sense? My subconscious snorts, Paedo sense.
They are still deep in discussion. Christian is talking rapidly to Elena, and she looks worried,
nodding, grimacing, and shaking her head. Reaching out, she rubs his arm soothingly while biting her
lip. Another nod, and she glances at me and offers me a small reassuring smile.
I can only stare at her stony-faced. I think I’m in shock. How could he bring me here?
She murmurs something to Christian, and he looks my way briefly then turns back to her and
replies. She nods, and I think she’s wishing him luck, but my lip-reading skills aren’t highly
developed.
Fifty strides back to me, anxiety etched on his face. Damn right. Mrs. Robinson returns to the
back room, closing the door behind her.
Christian frowns. “Are you okay?” he asks, but his voice is strained, cautious.
“Not really. You didn’t want to introduce me?” My voice sounds cold, hard.
His mouth drops open, he looks as if I’ve pulled the rug from under his feet.
“But I thought—”
“For a bright man, sometimes...” Words fail me. “I’d like to go, please.”
“Why?”
“You know why.” I roll my eyes.He gazes down at me, his eyes burning.
“I’m sorry, Ana. I didn’t know she’d be here. She’s never here. She’s opened a new branch at the
Bravern Center, and that’s where she’s normally based. Someone was sick today.”
I turn on my heel and head for the door.
“We won’t need Franco, Greta,” Christian snaps as we head out of the door. I have to suppress the
impulse to run. I want to run fast and far away. I have an overwhelming urge to cry. I just need to get
away from all this fuckedupness.
Christian walks wordlessly beside me as I try to mull all this over in my head. Wrapping my
arms protectively around myself, I keep my head down, avoiding the trees on Second Avenue. Wisely,
he makes no move to touch me. My mind is boiling with unanswered questions. Will Mr. Evasive fess
up?
“You used to take your subs there?” I snap.
“Some of them, yes,” he says quietly, his tone clipped.
“Leila?”
“Yes.”
“The place looks very new.”
“It’s been refurbished recently.”
“I see. So Mrs. Robinson met all your subs.”
“Yes.”
“Did they know about her?”
“No. None of them did. Only you.”
“But I’m not your sub.”
“No, you most definitely are not.”
I stop and face him. His eyes are wide, fearful. His lips are pressed into a hard, uncompromising
line.
“Can you see how fucked-up this is?” I glare up at him, my voice low.
“Yes. I’m sorry.” And he has the grace to look contrite.
“I want to get my hair cut, preferably somewhere where you haven’t fucked either the staff or the
clientele.”
He flinches.
“Now, if you’ll excuse me.”
“You’re not running. Are you?” he asks.
“No, I just want a damn haircut. Somewhere I can close my eyes, have someone wash my hair,
and forget about all this baggage that accompanies you.”
He runs his hand through his hair. “I can have Franco come to the apartment, or your place,” he
says quietly.
“She’s very attractive.”
He blinks. “Yes, she is.”
“Is she still married?”
“No. She divorced about five years ago.”
“Why aren’t you with her?”
“Because that’s over between us. I’ve told you this.” His brow creases suddenly. Holding his
finger up, he fishes his Blackberry out of his jacket pocket. It must be vibrating because I don’t hear it
ring.
“Welch,” he snaps, then listens. We are standing on Second Avenue, and I gaze in the direction of
the larch sapling in front of me, its leaves the newest green.
People bustle past us, lost in their Saturday morning chores. No doubt contemplating their ownpersonal dramas. I wonder if they include stalker ex-submissives, stunning ex-Dommes, and a man
who has no concept of privacy under United States law.
“Killed in a car crash? When?” Christian interrupts my reverie.
Oh no. Who? I listen more closely.
“That’s twice that bastard’s not been forthcoming. He must know. Does he have no feelings for
her whatsoever?” Christian shakes his head in disgust. “This is beginning to make sense... no...
explains why, but not where.” Christian glances around us as if searching for something, and I find
myself mirroring his actions. Nothing catches my eye. There are just the shoppers, the traffic, and the
trees.
“She’s here,” Christian continues. “She’s watching us... Yes... No. Two or four, twenty-four
seven... I haven’t broached that yet.” Christian looks at me directly.
Broached what? I frown, at him and he regards me warily.
“What...,” he whispers and pales, his eyes widening. “I see. When?... That recently? But how?...
No background checks?... I see. E-mail the name, address, and photos if you have them... twenty-four
seven, from this afternoon. Liaise with Taylor.” Christian hangs up.
“Well?” I ask, exasperated. Is he going to tell me?
“That was Welch.”
“Who’s Welch?”
“My security advisor.”
“Okay. So what’s happened?”
“Leila left her husband about three months ago and ran off with a guy who was killed in a car
accident four weeks ago.”
“Oh.”
“The asshole shrink should have found that out,” he says angrily. “Grief, that’s what this is.
Come.” He holds out his hand, and I automatically place mine in his before I snatch it away again.
“Wait a minute. We were in the middle of a discussion, about us. About her, your Mrs.
Robinson.”
Christian’s face hardens. “She’s not my Mrs. Robinson. We can talk about it at my place.”
“I don’t want to go to your place. I want to get my hair cut!” I shout. If I can just focus on this
one thing...
He grabs his Blackberry from his pocket again and dials a number. “Greta, Christian Grey. I want
Franco at my place in an hour. Ask Mrs. Lincoln... Good.” He puts his phone away. “He’s coming at
one.”
“Christian... !” I splutter, exasperated.
“Anastasia, Leila is obviously suffering a psychotic break. I don’t know if it’s you or me she’s
after, or what lengths she’s prepared to go to. We’ll go to your place, pick up your things, and you can
stay with me until we’ve tracked her down.”
“Why would I want to do that?”
“So I can keep you safe.”
“But—”
He glares at me. “You are coming back to my apartment if I have to drag you there by your hair.”
I gape at him... this is beyond belief. Fifty Shades in Glorious Technicolor.
“I think you’re overreacting.”
“I don’t. We can continue our discussion back at my place. Come.”
I fold my arms and glare at him. This has gone too far.
“No,” I state stubbornly. I have to make a stand.
“You can walk or I can carry you. I don’t mind either way, Anastasia.”“You wouldn’t dare.” I scowl at him. Surely he wouldn’t make a scene on Second Avenue?
He half smiles at me, but the smile doesn’t reach his eyes.
“Oh, baby, we both know that if you throw down the gauntlet I’ll be only too happy to pick it up.”
We glare at each other—and abruptly he sweeps down, clasps me round my thighs, and lifts me.
Before I know it, I am over his shoulder.
“Put me down!” I scream. Oh, it feels good to scream.
He starts striding along Second Avenue, ignoring me. Clasping his arm firmly around my thighs,
he swats my behind with his free hand.
“Christian!” I shout. People are staring. Could this be any more humiliating? “I’ll walk! I’ll
walk.”
He puts me down, and before he’s even stood upright, I stomp off in the direction of my
apartment, seething, ignoring him. Of course, he’s by my side in moments, but I continue to ignore
him. What am I going to do? I am so angry, but I’m not even sure what I am angry about—there’s so
much.
As I stalk back home, I make a mental list:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Shoulder carrying—unacceptable for anyone over the age of six.
Taking me to the salon that he owns with his ex-lover—how stupid can he be?
The same place he took his submissives—same stupidity at work here.
Not even realizing that this was a bad idea—and he’s supposed to be a bright guy.
Having crazy ex-girlfriends. Can I blame him for that? I am so furious; yes, I can.
Knowing my bank account number—that’s just too stalkery by half.
Buying SIP—he’s got more money than sense.
Insisting I stay with him—the threat from Leila must be worse than he feared... he
didn’t mention that yesterday.
Oh no, realization dawns. Something’s changed. What could that be? I halt, and Christian halts
with me. “What’s happened?” I demand.
He knits his brow. “What do you mean?”
“With Leila.”
“I’ve told you.”
“No, you haven’t. There’s something else. You didn’t insist that I go to your place yesterday. So
what’s happened?”
He shifts uncomfortably.
“Christian! Tell me!” I snap.
“She managed to obtain a concealed weapons permit yesterday.”
Oh shit. I gaze at him, blinking, and feel the blood draining from my face as I absorb this news. I
may faint. Suppose she wants to kill him? No.
“That means she can just buy a gun,” I whisper.
“Ana,” he says, his voice full of concern. He places his hands on my shoulders, pulling me close
to him. “I don’t think she’ll do anything stupid, but—I just don’t want to take that risk with you.”
“Not me... what about you?” I whisper.
He frowns down at me, and I wrap my arms around him and hug him hard, my face against hischest. He doesn’t seem to mind.
“Let’s get back,” he murmurs, and he reaches down and kisses my hair, and that’s it. All my fury
is gone, but not forgotten. Dissipated under the threat of some harm coming to Christian. The thought
is unbearable.
Solemnly I pack a small case and place my Mac, the Blackberry, my iPad, and Charlie Tango in my
backpack.
“Charlie Tango’s coming, too?” Christian asks.
I nod and he gives me a small, indulgent smile.
“Ethan is back Tuesday,” I mutter.
“Ethan?”
“Kate’s brother. He’s staying here until he finds a place in Seattle.”
Christian gazes at me blankly, but I notice the frostiness creep into his eyes.
“Well, it’s good that you’ll be staying with me. Give him more room,” he says quietly.
“I don’t know that he’s got keys. I’ll need to be back then.”
Christian gazes at me impassively but says nothing.
“That’s everything.”
He grabs my case, and we head out the door. As we walk around to the back of the building to the
parking lot, I’m aware that I am looking over my shoulder. I don’t know if my paranoia has taken over
or if someone really is watching me. Christian opens the passenger door of the Audi and looks at me
expectantly.
“Are you getting in?” he asks.
“I thought I was driving.”
“No. I’ll drive.”
“Something wrong with my driving? Don’t tell me you know what I scored on my driving test... I
wouldn’t be surprised with your stalking tendencies.” Maybe he knows that I just scraped through the
written test.
“Get in the car, Anastasia,” he snaps angrily.
“Okay.” I hastily climb in. Honestly, chill, will you?
Perhaps he has the same uneasy feeling, too. Some dark sentinel watching us—well, a pale
brunette with brown eyes who has an uncanny resemblance to yours truly and quite possibly a
concealed firearm.
Christian sets off into the traffic.
“Were all your submissives brunettes?”
He frowns and glances at me quickly. “Yes,” he mutters. He sounds uncertain, and I imagine him
thinking, where’s she going with this?
“I just wondered.”
“I told you. I prefer brunettes.”
“Mrs. Robinson isn’t a brunette.”
“That’s probably why,” he mutters. “She put me off blondes forever.”
“You’re kidding,” I gasp.
“Yes. I’m kidding,” he replies, exasperated.
I stare impassively out the window, spying brunettes everywhere, none of them Leila, though.
So, he only likes brunettes. I wonder why? Did Mrs. Extraordinarily-Glamorous-In-Spite-Of-Being-Old Robinson really put him off blondes? I shake my head—Christian Mindfuck Grey.
“Tell me about her.”
“What do you want to know?” Christian’s brow furrows, and his tone of voice tries to warn me
off.
“Tell me about your business arrangement.”
He visibly relaxes, happy to talk about work. “I am a silent partner. I’m not particularly
interested in the beauty business, but she’s built it into a successful venture. I just invested and helped
get her started.”
“Why?”
“I owed it to her.”
“Oh?”
“When I dropped out of Harvard, she lent me a hundred grand to start my business.”
Holy fuck... she’s rich, too.
“You dropped out?”
“It wasn’t my thing. I did two years. Unfortunately, my parents were not so understanding.”
I frown. Mr. Grey and Dr. Grace Trevelyan disapproving, I can’t picture it.
“You don’t seem to have done too badly dropping out. What was your major?”
“Politics and Economics.”
Hmm... figures.
“So she’s rich?” I murmur.
“She was a bored trophy wife, Anastasia. Her husband was wealthy—big in timber.” He smirks.
“He wouldn’t let her work. You know, he was controlling. Some men are like that.” He gives me a
quick sideways grin.
“Really? A controlling man, surely a mythical creature?” I don’t think I can squeeze any more
sarcasm into my response.
Christian’s grin gets bigger.
“She lent you her husband’s money?”
He nods and a small mischievous smile appears on his lips.
“That’s terrible.”
“He got his own back,” Christian says darkly as he pulls into the underground garage at Escala.
Oh?
“How?”
Christian shakes his head as if recalling a particularly sour memory and parks beside the Audi
Quattro SUV. “Come—Franco will be here shortly.”
In the elevator Christian peers down at me. “Still mad at me?” he asks matter-of-factly.
“Very.”
He nods. “Okay,” he says, and stares straight ahead.
Taylor is waiting for us when we arrive in the foyer. How does he always know? He takes my
case.
“Has Welch been in touch?” Christian asks.
“Yes, sir.”
“And?”
“Everything’s arranged.”“Excellent. How’s your daughter?”
“She’s fine, thank you, sir.”
“Good. We have a hairdresser arriving at one—Franco De Luca.”
“Miss Steele,” Taylor nods at me.
“Hi, Taylor. You have a daughter?”
“Yes ma’am.”
“How old is she?”
“She’s seven.”
Christian gazes at me impatiently.
“She lives with her mother,” Taylor clarifies.
“Oh, I see.”
Taylor smiles at me. This is unexpected. Taylor’s a father? I follow Christian into the great room,
intrigued by this information.
I glance around. I haven’t been here since I walked out.
“Are you hungry?”
I shake my head. Christian gazes at me for a beat and decides not to argue.
“I have to make a few calls. Make yourself at home.”
“Okay.”
Christian disappears into his study, leaving me standing in the huge art gallery he calls home and
wondering what to do with myself.
Clothes! Picking up my backpack, I wander upstairs to my bedroom and check out the walk-in
closet. It’s still full of clothes—all brand new with price tags still attached. Three long evening
dresses, three cocktail dresses, and three more for everyday wear. All this must have cost a fortune.
I check the tag on one of the evening dresses: $2,998. Holy fuck. I sink to the floor.
This isn’t me. I put my head in my hands and try to process the last few hours. It’s exhausting.
Why, oh why have I fallen for someone who is plain crazy—beautiful, sexy as fuck, richer than
Croesus, and crazy with a capital K?
I fish my Blackberry out of my backpack and call my mom.
“Ana, honey! It’s been so long. How are you, darling?”
“Oh, you know...”
“What’s wrong? Still not worked it out with Christian?”
“Mom, it’s complicated. I think he’s nuts. That’s the problem.”
“Tell me about it. Men, there’s just no reading them sometimes. Bob’s wondering if our move to
Georgia was a good one.”
“What?”
“Yeah, he’s talking about going back to Vegas.”
Oh, someone else has problems. I’m not the only one.
Christian appears in the doorway. “There you are. I thought you’d run off.” His relief is obvious.
I hold my hand up to indicate that I’m on the phone. “Sorry, Mom, I have to go. I’ll call again
soon.”
“Okay, honey—take care of yourself. Love you!”
“Love you, too, Mom.”
I hang up and gaze at Fifty. He frowns, looking strangely awkward.
“Why are you hiding in here?” he asks.
“I’m not hiding. I’m despairing.”
“Despairing?”“Of all this, Christian.” I wave my hand in the general direction of the clothes.
“Can I come in?”
“It’s your closet.”
He frowns again and sits down, cross-legged, facing me.
“They’re just clothes. If you don’t like them I’ll send them back.”
“You’re a lot to take on, you know?”
He blinks at me and scratches his chin... his stubbly chin. My fingers itch to touch him.
“I know. I’m trying,” he murmurs.
“You’re very trying.”
“As are you, Miss Steele.”
“Why are you doing this?”
His eyes widen and his wary look returns. “You know why.”
“No, I don’t.”
He runs a hand through his hair. “You are one frustrating female.”
“You could have a nice brunette submissive. One who’d say, ‘how high?’ every time you said
jump, provided of course she had permission to speak. So why me, Christian? I just don’t get it.”
He gazes at me for a moment, and I have no idea what he’s thinking.
“You make me look at the world differently, Anastasia. You don’t want me for my money. You
give me... hope,” he says softly.
What? Mr. Cryptic is back. “Hope of what?”
He shrugs. “More.” His voice is low and quiet. “And you’re right. I am used to women doing
exactly what I say, when I say, doing exactly what I want. It gets old quickly. There’s something about
you, Anastasia, that calls to me on some deep level I don’t understand. It’s a siren’s call. I can’t resist
you, and I don’t want to lose you.” He reaches forward and takes my hand. “Don’t run, please—have a
little faith in me and a little patience. Please.”
He looks so vulnerable... Jeez, it’s disturbing. Leaning up on my knees, I bend forward and kiss
him gently on his lips.
“Okay. Faith and patience, I can live with that.”
“Good. Because Franco’s here.”
Franco is small, dark, and gay. I love him.
“Such beautiful hair!” he gushes with an outrageous, probably fake Italian accent. I bet he’s from
Baltimore or somewhere, but his enthusiasm is infectious. Christian leads us both into his bathroom,
exits hurriedly, and reenters carrying a chair from his room.
“I’ll leave you two to it,” he mutters.
“Grazie, Mr. Grey.” Franco turns to me. “Bene, Anastasia, what shall we do with you?”
Christian is sitting on his couch, plowing through what look like spreadsheets. Soft, mellow classical
music drifts through the great room. A woman sings passionately, pouring her soul into the song. It’s
breathtaking. Christian glances up and smiles, distracting me from the music.
“See! I tell you he like it,” Franco enthuses.
“You look lovely, Ana,” Christian says appreciatively.“My work ‘ere is done,” Franco exclaims.
Christian rises and strolls toward us. “Thank you, Franco.”
Franco turns, grasps me in an overwhelming bear hug, and kisses both my cheeks. “Never let
anyone else be cutting your hair, bellissima Anastasia!”
I laugh, slightly embarrassed by his familiarity. Christian shows him to the foyer door and
returns moments later.
“I’m glad you kept it long,” he says as he walks toward me, his eyes bright. He takes a strand
between his fingers.
“So soft,” he murmurs, gazing down at me. “Are you still mad at me?”
I nod and he smiles.
“What precisely are you mad at me about?”
I roll my eyes. “You want the list?”
“There’s a list?”
“A long one.”
“Can we discuss it in bed?”
“No.” I pout at him childishly.
“Over lunch, then. I’m hungry, and not just for food,” he gives me a salacious smile.
“I am not going to let you dazzle me with your sexpertise.”
He stifles a smile. “What is bothering you specifically, Miss Steele? Spit it out.”
Okay.
“What’s bothering me? Well, there’s your gross invasion of my privacy, the fact that you took
me to some place where your ex-mistress works and you used to take all your lovers to have their bits
waxed, you manhandled me in the street like I was six years old—and to cap it all, you let your Mrs.
Robinson touch you!” My voice has risen to a crescendo.
He raises his eyebrows, and his good humor vanishes.
“That’s quite a list. But just to clarify once more—she’s not my Mrs. Robinson.”
“She can touch you,” I repeat.
He purses his lips. “She knows where.”
“What does that mean?”
He runs both hands through his hair and closes his eyes briefly, as if he’s seeking divine guidance
of some kind. He swallows.
“You and I don’t have any rules. I have never had a relationship without rules, and I never know
where you’re going to touch me. It makes me nervous. Your touch completely—” He stops, searching
for the words. “It just means more... so much more”
More? His answer’s completely unexpected, throwing me, and there’s that little word with the
big meaning hanging between us again.
My touch means... more. Holy cow. How am I supposed to resist when he says this stuff? Gray
eyes search mine, watching, apprehensive.
Tentatively I reach out and apprehension shifts to alarm. Christian steps back and I drop my
hand.
“Hard limit,” he whispers urgently, a pained, panicked look on his face.
I can’t help but feel a crushing disappointment. “How would you feel if you couldn’t touch me?”
“Devastated and deprived,” he says immediately.
Oh, my Fifty Shades. Shaking my head, I offer him a small, reassuring smile and he relaxes.
“You’ll have to tell me exactly why this is a hard limit, one day, please.”
“One day,” he murmurs and seems to snap out of his vulnerability in a nanosecond.How can he switch so quickly? He’s the most capricious person I know.
“So, the rest of your list. Invading your privacy.” His mouth twists as he contemplates this.
“Because I know your bank account number?”
“Yes, that’s outrageous.”
“I do background checks on all my submissives. I’ll show you.” He turns and heads for his study.
I dutifully follow him, dazed. From a locked filing cabinet, he pulls a manila folder. Typed on the
tab: Anastasia Rose Steele.
Holy fucking shit. I glare at him.
He shrugs apologetically. “You can keep it,” he says quietly.
“Well, gee, thanks,” I snap. I flick through the contents. He has a copy of my birth certificate, for
heaven’s sake, my hard limits, the NDA, the contract—Jeez—my social security number, resume,
employment records.
“So you knew I worked at Clayton’s?”
“Yes.”
“It wasn’t a coincidence. You didn’t just drop by?”
“No.”
I don’t know whether to be angry or flattered.
“This is fucked-up. You know that?”
“I don’t see it that way. What I do, I have to be careful.”
“But this is private.”
“I don’t misuse the information. Anyone can get hold of it if they have half a mind to, Anastasia.
To have control—I need information. It’s how I’ve always operated.” He gazes at me, his expression
guarded and unreadable.
“You do misuse the information. You deposited twenty-four thousand dollars that I didn’t want
into my account.”
His mouth presses in a hard line. “I told you. That’s what Taylor managed to get for your car.
Unbelievable, I know, but there you go.”
“But the Audi...”
“Anastasia, do you have any idea how much money I make?”
I flush, of course not. “Why should I? I don’t need to know the bottom line of your bank account,
Christian.”
His eyes soften. “I know. That’s one of the things I love about you.”
I gaze at him, shocked. Love about me?
“Anastasia, I earn roughly one hundred thousand dollars an hour.”
My mouth drops open. That is an obscene amount of money.
“Twenty-four thousand dollars is nothing. The car, the Tess books, the clothes, they’re nothing.”
His voice is soft.
I gaze at him. He really has no idea. Extraordinary.
“If you were me, how would you feel about all this... largesse coming your way?” I ask.
He stares at me blankly, and there it is, his problem in a nutshell—empathy or the lack thereof.
The silence stretches between us.
Finally, he shrugs. “I don’t know,” he says, and he looks genuinely bemused.
My heart swells. This is it, the crux of his Fifty Shades, surely. He can’t put himself in my shoes.
Well, now I know.
“It doesn’t feel great. I mean, you’re very generous, but it makes me uncomfortable. I have told
you this enough times.”
He sighs. “I want to give you the world, Anastasia.”“I just want you, Christian. Not all the add-ons.”
“They’re part of the deal. Part of what I am.”
Oh, this is going nowhere.
“Shall we eat?” I ask. This tension between us is draining.
He frowns. “Sure.”
“I’ll cook.”
“Good. Otherwise there’s food in the fridge.”
“Mrs. Jones is off on the weekends? So you eat cold cuts most weekends?”
“No.”
“Oh?”
He sighs. “My submissives cook, Anastasia.”
“Oh, of course.” I flush. How could I be so stupid? I smile sweetly at him. “What would Sir like
to eat?”
He smirks. “Whatever Madam can find,” he says darkly.
Inspecting the impressive contents of the fridge, I decide on Spanish omelet. There are even cold
potatoes—perfect. It’s quick and easy. Christian is still in his study, no doubt invading some poor,
unsuspecting fool’s privacy and compiling information. The thought is unpleasant and leaves a bitter
taste in my mouth. My mind is reeling. He really knows no bounds.
I need music if I’m going to cook, and I’m going to cook unsubmissively! I wander over to the
iPod dock beside the fireplace and pick up Christian’s iPod. I bet there are more of Leila’s choices on
here,—I dread the very idea.
Where is she? I wonder. What does she want?
I shudder. What a legacy. I can’t wrap my head around it.
I scroll through the extensive list. I want something upbeat. Hmm, Beyoncé—doesn’t sound like
Christian’s taste. Crazy in Love. Oh yes! How apt. I hit the repeat button and put it on loud.
I sashay back to the kitchen and find a bowl, open the fridge, and take out the eggs. I crack them
open and begin to whisk, dancing the whole time.
Raiding the fridge once more, I gather potatoes, ham, and—Yes!—peas from the freezer. All of
these will do. Finding a pan, I place it on the stove, put in a little olive oil, and go back to whisking.
No empathy, I muse. Is this unique to Christian? Maybe all men are like this, baffled by women. I
just don’t know. Perhaps it’s not such a revelation.
I wish Kate were home; she would know. She’s been in Barbados far too long. She should be back
at the end of the week after her additional vacation with Elliot. I wonder if it’s still lust at first sight
for them.
One of the things I love about you.
I stop whisking. He said it. Does that mean there are other things? I smile for the first time since
seeing Mrs. Robinson—a genuine, heartfelt, face-splitting smile.
Christian slips his arms around me, making me jump.
“Interesting choice of music,” he purrs as he kisses me below my ear. “Your hair smells good.”
He nuzzles my hair and inhales deeply.
Desire uncurls in my belly. No. I shrug out of his embrace.
“I’m still mad at you.”
He frowns. “How long are you going to keep this up?” he asks, dragging a hand through his hair.I shrug. “At least until I’ve eaten.”
His lips twitch with amusement. Turning, he picks up the remote control from the counter and
switches off the music.
“Did you put that on your iPod?” I ask.
He shakes his head, his expression somber, and I know it was her—Ghost Girl.
“Don’t you think she was trying to tell you something back then?”
“Well, with hindsight, probably,” he says quietly.
qed. No empathy. My subconscious folds her arms and smacks her lips in disgust.
“Why’s it still on there?”
“I quite like the song. But if it offends you I’ll remove it.”
“No, it’s fine. I like to cook to music.”
“What would you like to hear?”
“Surprise me.”
He smirks at me and heads over to the iPod dock while I go back to my whisking.
Moments later the heavenly sweet, soulful voice of Nina Simone fills the room. It’s one of Ray’s
favorites: “I Put a Spell on You.”
I flush, turning to gape at Christian. What is he trying to tell me? He put a spell on me a long
time ago. Oh my... his look has changed, the levity gone, his eyes darker, intense.
I watch him, enthralled as slowly, like the predator he is, he stalks me in time to the slow sultry
beat of the music. He’s barefoot, wearing just an untucked white shirt, jeans, and a smoldering look.
Nina sings, “you’re mine” as Christian reaches me, his intention clear.
“Christian, please,” I whisper, the whisk redundant in my hand.
“Please what?”
“Don’t do this.”
“Do what?”
“This.”
He’s standing in front of me, gazing down at me.
“Are you sure?” he breathes and reaching over, he takes the whisk from my hand and places it
back in the bowl with the eggs. My heart is in my mouth. I don’t want this—I do want this—badly.
He’s so frustrating. He’s so hot and desirable. I tear my gaze away from his spellbinding look.
“I want you, Anastasia,” he murmurs. “I love and I hate, and I love arguing with you. It’s very
new. I need to know that we’re okay. It’s the only way I know how.”
“My feelings for you haven’t changed,” I whisper.
His proximity is overwhelming, exhilarating. The familiar pull is there, all my synapses goading
me toward him, my inner goddess at her most libidinous. Staring at the patch of hair in the V of his
shirt, I bite my lip, helpless, driven by desire—I want to taste him there.
He’s so close, but he doesn’t touch me. His heat is warming my skin.
“I’m not going to touch you until you say yes,” he says softly. “But right now, after a really shitty
morning, I want to bury myself in you and just forget everything but us.”
Oh my... Us. A magical combination, a small potent pronoun that clinches the deal. I raise my
head to stare at his beautiful yet serious face.
“I’m going to touch your face,” I breathe, and see his surprise reflected briefly in his eyes before
his acceptance registers.
Lifting my hand, I caress his cheek, and run my fingertips across his stubble. He closes his eyes
and exhales, leaning his face into my touch.
He leans down slowly, and my lips automatically lift to meet his. He hovers over me.
“Yes or no, Anastasia?” he whispers.“Yes.”
His mouth softly closes on mine, coaxing, coercing my lips apart as his arms fold around me,
pulling me to him. His hand moves up my back, fingers tangling in the hair at the back of my head and
tugging gently, while his other hand flattens on my behind, forcing me against him. I moan softly.
“Mr. Grey.” Taylor coughs, and Christian releases me immediately.
“Taylor,” he says, his voice frigid.
I whirl round to see an uncomfortable Taylor standing on the threshold of the great room.
Christian and Taylor stare at each other, some unspoken communication passing between them.
“My study,” Christian snaps, and Taylor walks briskly across the room.
“Rain check,” Christian whispers to me before following Taylor out of the room.
I take a deep, steadying breath. Holy hell. Can I not resist him for one minute? I shake my head,
disgusted at myself, grateful for Taylor’s interruption, embarrassing though it is.
I wonder what Taylor has had to interrupt in the past. What’s he seen? I don’t want to think about
that. Lunch. I’ll make lunch. I busy myself slicing potatoes. What does Taylor want? My mind races—
is this about Leila?
Ten minutes later, they emerge, just as the omelet is ready. Christian looks preoccupied as he
glances at me.
“I’ll brief them in ten,” he says to Taylor.
“We’ll be ready,” Taylor answers and leaves the great room.
I produce two warmed plates and place them on the kitchen island.
“Lunch?”
“Please,” Christian says as he perches on one of the bar stools. Now he’s watching me carefully.
“Problem?”
“No.”
I scowl. He’s not telling me. I dish out lunch and sit down beside him, resigned to staying in the
dark.
“This is good,” Christian murmurs appreciatively as he takes a bite. “Would you like a glass of
wine?”
“No, thank you.” I need to keep a clear head around you, Grey.
It does taste good, even though I’m not that hungry. But I eat, knowing Christian will nag if I
don’t. Eventually Christian disrupts our brooding silence and switches on the classical piece I heard
earlier.
“What’s this?” I ask.
“Canteloube, Songs of the Auvergne. This is called ‘Bailero.’ ”
“It’s lovely. What language is it?”
“It’s in old French—Occitan, in fact.”
“You speak French, do you understand it?” Memories of the flawless French he spoke at his
parents’ dinner come to mind...
“Some words, yes.” Christian smiles, visibly relaxing. “My mother had a mantra: musical
instrument, foreign language, martial art. Elliot speaks Spanish; Mia and I speak French. Elliot plays
guitar, I play piano, and Mia the cello.”
“Wow. And the martial arts?”
“Elliot does Judo. Mia put her foot down at age twelve and refused.” He smirks at the memory.
“I wish my mother had been that organized.”
“Dr. Grace is formidable when it comes to the accomplishments of her children.”
“She must be very proud of you. I would be.”
A dark thought flashes across Christian’s face, and he looks momentarily uncomfortable. Heregards me warily as if he’s in uncharted territory.
“Have you decided what you’ll wear this evening? Or do I need to come and pick something for
you?” His tone is suddenly brusque.
Whoa! He sounds angry. Why? What have I said?
“Um... not yet. Did you choose all those clothes?”
“No, Anastasia, I didn’t. I gave a list and your size to a personal shopper at Neiman Marcus. They
should fit. Just so that you know, I have ordered additional security for this evening and the next few
days. With Leila unpredictable and unaccounted for somewhere on the streets of Seattle, I think it’s a
wise precaution. I don’t want you going out unaccompanied. Okay?”
I blink at him. “Okay.” What happened to I-must-have-you-now Grey?
“Good. I’m going to brief them. I shouldn’t be long.”
“They’re here?”
“Yes.”
Where?
Collecting his plate, Christian places it in the sink and disappears from the room. What the hell
was that about? He’s like several different people in one body. Isn’t that a symptom of schizophrenia?
I must Google that.
I clear my plate, wash up quickly, and head back up to my bedroom carrying the Anastasia Rose
Steele dossier. Back in the walk-in closet, I pull out the three long evening dresses. Now, which one?
Lying down on the bed, I gaze at my Mac, my iPad, and my Blackberry. I am overwhelmed with
technology. I set about transferring Christian’s playlist from my iPad to the Mac, then fire up Google
to surf the net.
I’m lying across the bed looking at my Mac as Christian enters.
“What are you doing?” he inquires softly.
I panic briefly, wondering if I should let him see the website I’m on: Multiple Personality
Disorder: The Symptoms.
Stretching out beside me, he eyes the webpage with amusement.
“On this site for a reason?” he asks nonchalantly.
Brusque Christian has gone—playful Christian is back. How the hell am I supposed to keep up
with this?
“Research. Into a difficult personality.” I give him my most deadpan look.
His lips twitch with a suppressed smile. “A difficult personality?”
“My own pet project.”
“I’m a pet project now? A sideline. Science experiment maybe. When I thought I was everything.
Miss Steele, you wound me.”
“How do you know it’s you?”
“Wild guess.” He smirks.
“It’s true that you are the only fucked-up, mercurial, control freak that I know, intimately.”
“I thought I was the only person you know intimately.” He arches a brow.
I flush. “Yes. That, too.”“Have you reached any conclusions yet?”
I turn and gaze at him. He’s on his side stretched out beside me with his head resting on his
elbow, his expression soft, amused.
“I think you’re in need of intense therapy.”
He reaches up and gently tucks my hair behind my ears.
“I think I’m in need of you. Here.” He hands me a tube of lipstick.
I frown at him, perplexed. It’s harlot red, not my color at all.
“You want me to wear this?” I squeak.
He laughs. “No, Anastasia, not unless you want to. Not sure it’s your color,” he finishes dryly.
He sits up on the bed cross-legged and drags his shirt off over his head. Oh my. “I like your road
map idea.”
I stare at him blankly. Road map?
“The no-go areas,” he says by way of explanation.
“Oh. I was kidding.”
“I’m not.”
“You want me to draw on you, with lipstick?”
“It washes off. Eventually.”
This means I could touch him freely. A small smile of wonder plays on my lips, and I smirk at
him.
“What about something more permanent like a Sharpie?”
“I could get a tattoo.” His eyes are alight with humor.
Christian Grey with a tatt? Marring his lovely body, when it’s marked in so many ways already?
No way!
“No to the tattoo!” I laugh to hide my horror.
“Lipstick, then.” He grins.
Shutting the Mac, I push it to the side. This could be fun.
“Come.” He holds his hands out to me. “Sit on me.”
I push my flats off my feet, scramble into a sitting position, and crawl over to him. He lies down
on the bed but keeps his knees flexed.
“Lean against my legs.”
I clamber over him and sit astride as instructed. His eyes are wide and cautious. But he’s amused,
too.
“You seem—enthusiastic for this,” he comments wryly.
“I’m always eager for information, Mr. Grey, and it means you’ll relax, because I’ll know where
the boundaries lie.”
He shakes his head, as if he can’t quite believe that he’s about to let me draw all over his body.
“Open the lipstick,” he orders.
Oh, he’s in über-bossy mode, but I don’t care.
“Give me your hand.”
I give him my other hand.
“The one with the lipstick.” He rolls his eyes at me.
“Are you rolling your eyes at me?”
“Yep.”
“That’s very rude, Mr. Grey. I know some people who get positively violent at eye-rolling.”
“Do you now?” His tone is ironic.
I give him my hand with the lipstick, and suddenly he sits up so we are nose to nose.“Ready?” he asks in a low, soft murmur that makes everything tighten and tense inside me. Oh
wow.
“Yes,” I whisper. His proximity is alluring, his toned flesh close, his Christian-smell mixed with
my bodywash. He guides my hand up to the curve of his shoulder.
“Press down,” he breathes, and my mouth goes dry as he directs my hand down, from the top of
his shoulder, around his arm socket then down the side of his chest. The lipstick leaves a broad, livid
red streak it in its wake. He stops at the bottom of this ribcage then directs me across his stomach. He
tenses and stares, seemingly impassive, into my eyes, but beneath his careful blank look, I see his
restraint.
His aversion is held in strict check, the line of his jaw is strained, and there’s tension around his
eyes. Midway across his stomach he murmurs, “And up the other side.” He releases my hand.
I mirror the line I’ve drawn on his left side. The trust he’s giving me is heady but tempered by
the fact that I can I count his pain. Seven small, round white scars dot his chest, and it’s deep, dark
purgatory to see this hideous, evil desecration of his beautiful body. Who would do this to a child?
“There, done,” I whisper, containing my emotion.
“No, you’re not,” he replies and traces a line with his long index finger around the base of his
neck. I follow the line of his finger with a scarlet streak. Finishing, I gaze into the gray depths of his
eyes.
“Now my back,” he murmurs. He shifts so I have to climb off him, then he turns around on the
bed and sits cross-legged with his back to me.
“Follow the line from my chest, all the way round to the other side.” His voice is low and husky.
I do as he says until a crimson line runs across the middle of his back, and as I do, I count more
scars marring his beautiful body. Nine in all.
Holy fuck. I have to fight the overwhelming need to kiss each one and stop the tears pooling in
my eyes. What kind of animal would do this? His head is down, and his body tense as I complete the
circuit round his back.
“Around your neck, too?” I whisper.
He nods, and I draw another line joining the first around the base of his neck beneath his hair.
“Finished,” I murmur, and it looks like he’s wearing a bizarre skin-colored vest with a harlot-red
trim.
His shoulders slump as he relaxes, and he turns slowly to face me once again.
“Those are the boundaries,” he says quietly, his eyes dark and pupils dilated... from fear? From
lust? I want to hurl myself at him, but I restrain myself and gaze at him in wonder.
“I can live with those. Right now I want to launch myself at you,” I whisper.
He gives me a wicked smile and holds out his hands, a gesture of supplication.
“Well, Miss Steele, I’m all yours.”
I squeal with childish delight and catapult myself into his arms, knocking him flat. He twists,
letting out a boyish laugh filled with relief that the ordeal is over. Somehow, I end up beneath him on
the bed.
“Now, about that rain check,” he breathes and his mouth claims mine once more.My hands fist in his hair while my mouth is feverish against Christian’s, consuming him, relishing the
feel of his tongue against mine. And he’s the same, devouring me. It’s heavenly.
Suddenly he drags me up and grasps the hem of my T-shirt, whipping it over my head and
throwing it on the floor.
“I want to feel you,” he says greedily against my mouth as his hands move behind me to undo my
bra. In one smooth move, it’s off and he pitches it aside.
He pushes me back down onto the bed, pressing me into the mattress, and his mouth and hand
move to my breasts. My fingers curl into his hair as he takes one of my nipples between his lips and
tugs hard.
I cry out as the sensation sweeps through my body, spikes, and tightens all the muscles around
my groin.
“Yes, baby, let me hear you,” he murmurs against my overheated skin.
Boy, I want him inside me, now. With his mouth, he toys with my nipple, pulling at it, making
me squirm and writhe and yearn for him. I sense his longing mixed with—what? Veneration. It’s as if
he’s worshipping me.
He teases me with his fingers, my nipple growing hard and elongating under his skillful touch.
His hand moves to my jeans, and he deftly undoes the button, tugs the zipper down, and slips his hand
inside my panties, sliding his fingers against my sex.
His breath hisses out as his finger glides into me. I push my pelvis up into the heel of his hand,
and he responds, rubbing against me.
“Oh, baby,” he breathes as he hovers over me, staring intently into my eyes. “You’re so wet.” His
voice is filled with wonder.
“I want you,” I murmur.
His mouth joins with mine again, and I feel his hungry desperation, his need for me.
This is new—it’s never been like this except perhaps when I came back from Georgia—and his
words from earlier drift back to me... I need to know we’re okay. This is the only way I know how.
The thought unravels me. To know that I have such an effect on him, that I can offer him so much
solace, doing this—my inner goddess purrs with pure pleasure. He sits up, grasps the hem of my jeans,
and tugs them off, followed by my panties.Keeping his eyes fixed on mine, he stands, takes a foil packet out of his pocket, and tosses it at
me, then removes his jeans and boxers in one swift motion.
I rip the packet open greedily, and when he lies beside me again, I slowly roll the condom on to
him. He grabs both my hands and rolls on to his back.
“You. On top,” he orders, pulling me astride him. “I want to see you.”
Oh.
He guides me, and hesitantly I ease myself down onto him. He closes his eyes and flexes his hips
to meet me, filling me, stretching me, his mouth forming a perfect O as he exhales.
Oh, that feels so good—possessing him, possessing me.
He holds my hands, and I don’t know if it’s to steady me or keep me from touching him, even
though I have my road map.
“You feel so good,” he murmurs.
I rise again, heady with the power I have over him, watching Christian Grey slowly coming apart
beneath me. He lets go of my hands and grabs my hips, and I place my hands on his arms. He thrusts
into me sharply, causing me to cry out.
“That’s right, baby, feel me,” he says, his voice strained.
I tip my head back and do exactly that. This is what he does so well.
I move—countering his rhythm in perfect symmetry—numbing all thought and reason. I am just
sensation lost in this void of pleasure. Up and down... again and again... Oh yes... Opening my eyes, I
stare down at him, my breathing ragged, and he’s staring back at me, eyes blazing.
“My Ana,” he mouths.
“Yes,” I rasp. “Always.”
He groans loudly, closing his eyes again, tipping his head back. Oh my... Seeing Christian undone
is enough to seal my fate, and I come audibly, exhaustingly, spinning down and around, collapsing on
top of him.
“Oh, baby,” he groans as he finds his release, holding me still and letting go.
My head is on his chest in the no-go area, my cheek nestled against the springy hair on his
sternum. I am panting, glowing, and I resist the urge to pucker my lips and kiss him.
I just lie on top of him, catching my breath. He smoothes my hair, and his hand runs down my
back, caressing me as his breathing calms.
“You are so beautiful.”
I lift my head to gaze at him, my expression skeptical. He frowns in response and sits up quickly,
taking me by surprise, his arm sweeping round to hold me in place. I clutch his biceps as we are nose
to nose.
“You. Are. Beautiful,” he says again, his tone emphatic.
“And you’re amazingly sweet sometimes.” I kiss him gently.
He lifts me and eases out of me. I wince as he does. Leaning forward, he kisses me softly.
“You have no idea how attractive you are, do you?”
I flush. Why’s he going on about this?
“All those boys pursuing you—that isn’t enough of a clue?”
“Boys? What boys?”
“You want the list?” Christian frowns. “The photographer, he’s crazy about you, that boy in the
hardware store, your roommate’s older brother. Your boss,” he adds bitterly.
“Oh, Christian, that’s just not true.”
“Trust me. They want you. They want what’s mine.” He pulls me against him, and I lift my arms
to his shoulders, my hands in his hair, regarding him with amusement.“Mine,” he repeats, his eyes glowing possessively.
“Yes, yours.” I reassure him, smiling. He looks mollified, and I feel perfectly comfortable naked
in his lap on a bed in the full light of a Saturday afternoon. Who would have thought? The lipstick
marks remain on his exquisite body. I note some smears on the duvet cover though, and wonder
briefly what Mrs. Jones will make of them.
“The line is still intact,” I murmur and bravely trace the mark on his shoulder with my index
finger. He stiffens, blinking suddenly. “I want to go exploring.”
He regards me skeptically.
“The apartment?”
“No. I was thinking of the treasure map that we’ve drawn on you.” My fingers itch to touch him.
His eyebrows lift in surprise, and he blinks with uncertainty. I rub my nose against his.
“And what would that entail exactly, Miss Steele?”
I lift my hand from his shoulder and run my fingertips down this face.
“I just want to touch you everywhere I’m allowed.”
Christian catches my index finger in his teeth, biting down gently.
“Ow,” I protest and he grins, a low growl coming from his throat.
“Okay,” he says, releasing my finger, but his voice is laced with apprehension. “Wait.” He leans
behind me, lifting me again, and removes his condom, dropping it unceremoniously on the floor
beside the bed.
“I hate those things. I’ve a good mind to call Dr. Greene around to give you a shot.”
“You think the top ob-gyn in Seattle is going to come running?”
“I can be very persuasive,” he murmurs, hooking my hair behind my ear. “Franco’s done a great
job on your hair. I like these layers.”
What?
“Stop changing the subject.”
He shifts me back so I’m straddling him, leaning on his propped-up knees, my feet on either side
of his hips. He leans back on his arms.
“Touch away,” he says without humor. He looks nervous, but he’s trying to hide it.
Keeping my eyes on his, I reach down and trace my finger underneath the lipstick line, across his
finely sculptured abdominal muscles. He flinches and I stop.
“I don’t have to,” I whisper.
“No, it’s fine. Just takes some... readjustment on my part. No one’s touched me for a long time,”
he murmurs.
“Mrs. Robinson?” The words pop unbidden out of my mouth, and amazingly, I manage to keep
all bitterness and rancor out of my voice.
He nods, his discomfort obvious. “I don’t want to talk about her. It will sour your good mood.”
“I can handle it.”
“No, you can’t, Ana. You see red whenever I mention her. My past is my past. It’s a fact. I can’t
change it. I’m lucky that you don’t have one, because it would drive me crazy if you did.”
I frown at him, but I don’t want to fight. “Drive you crazy? More than you are already?” I smile,
hoping to lighten the atmosphere between us.
His lips twitch. “Crazy for you,” he whispers.
My heart swells with joy.
“Shall I call Dr. Flynn?”
“I don’t think that will be necessary,” he says dryly.
Shifting back so he drops his legs, I place my fingers back on his stomach and let them drift
across his skin. He stills once more.“I like touching you.” My fingers skate down to his navel then southward along his happy, happy
trail. His lips part as his breathing changes, his eyes darken and his erection stirs and twitches beneath
me. Holy cow. Round two.
“Again?” I murmur.
He smiles. “Oh yes, Miss Steele, again.”
What a delicious way to spend a Saturday afternoon. I stand beneath the shower, absentmindedly
washing myself, careful not to wet my tied-back hair, contemplating the last couple of hours.
Christian and vanilla seem to be going well.
He’s revealed so much today. It’s staggering, trying to assimilate all the information and to
reflect on what I’ve learned: his salary details—Whoa, he’s stinking rich, and for someone so young;
it’s just extraordinary—and the dossiers he has on me and on all his brunette submissives. I wonder if
they are all in that filing cabinet?
My subconscious purses her lips at me and shakes her head—don’t even go there. I frown. Just a
quick peek?
And there’s Leila—with a gun, potentially, somewhere—and her crap taste in music still on his
iPod. But even worse, Mrs. Paedo Robinson, I cannot wrap my head around her, and I don’t want to. I
don’t want her to be a shimmering-haired specter in our relationship. He’s right, I do go off the deep
end when I think of her, so perhaps it’s best if I don’t.
I step out of the shower and dry myself, and I’m suddenly seized by unexpected anger.
But who wouldn’t go off the deep end? What normal, sane person would do that to a fifteen-year-
old boy? How much has she contributed to his fuckedupness? I don’t understand her. And worse still,
he says she helped him. How?
I think of his scars, the stark physical embodiment of a horrific childhood and a sickening
reminder of what mental scars he must bear. My sweet, sad Fifty Shades. He’s said such loving things
today. He’s crazy for me.
Staring at my reflection, I smile at the memory of his words, my heart brimming once more, and
my face transforms with a ridiculous smile. Perhaps we can make this work. But how long will he
want to do this without wanting to beat the crap out of me because I cross some arbitrary line?
My smile dissolves. This is what I don’t know. This is the shadow that hangs over us. Kinky
fuckery, yes, I can do that, but more?
My subconscious stares at me blankly, for once offering no snarky words of wisdom. I head back
to my bedroom to dress.
Christian is downstairs getting ready, doing whatever he’s doing, so I have the bedroom to
myself. As well as all the dresses in the closet, I have drawers full of new underwear. I select a black
bustier corset creation with a price tag of five hundred forty dollars. It has silver trim like filigree and
the briefest of panties to match. Thigh-high stockings, too, in a natural color, so fine, pure silk. Wow,
they feel... slinky... and kind of hot... yeah.
I am reaching for the dress when Christian enters unannounced. Whoa, you could knock! He
stands immobilized, staring at me, gray eyes glimmering, hungrily. I blush crimson everywhere, it
feels. He is wearing a white shirt and black suit pants, the neck of his shirt is open. I can see the
lipstick line still in place, and he’s still staring.
“Can I help you, Mr. Grey? I assume there is some purpose to your visit other than to gawk
mindlessly at me.”“I am rather enjoying my mindless gawk, thank you, Miss Steele,” he murmurs darkly, stepping
further into the room and drinking me in. “Remind me to send a personal note of thanks to Caroline
Acton.”
I frown. Who the hell is she?
“The personal shopper at Neiman’s,” he says, spookily answering my unspoken question.
“Oh.”
“I’m quite distracted.”
“I can see that. What do you want, Christian?” I give him my no-nonsense stare.
He retaliates with his crooked smile and pulls the silver ball egg-things from his pocket, stopping
me in my tracks. Holy shit! He wants to spank me? Now? Why?
“It’s not what you think,” he says quickly.
“Enlighten me,” I whisper.
“I thought you could wear these tonight.”
And the implications of that sentence hang between us as the idea sinks in.
“To this event?” I’m shocked.
He nods slowly, his eyes darkening.
Oh my.
“Will you spank me later?”
“No.”
For a moment, I feel a tiny fleeting stab of disappointment.
He chuckles. “You want me to?”
I swallow. I just don’t know.
“Well, rest assured I am not going to touch you like that, not even if you beg me.”
Oh! This is news.
“Do you want to play this game?” he continues, holding up the balls. “You can always take them
out if it’s too much.”
I gaze at him. He looks so wickedly tempting—unkempt, recently fucked hair, dark eyes dancing
with erotic thoughts, that beautiful sculptured mouth, lips raised in a sexy, amused smile.
“Okay,” I acquiesce softly. Hell, yes! My inner goddess has found her voice and is shouting from
the rooftops.
“Good girl,” Christian grins. “Come here, and I’ll put them in, once you’ve put your shoes on.”
My shoes? I turn and glance at the dove gray suede stilettos that match the dress I’ve chosen to
wear.
Humor him! my inner goddess barks at me.
He holds out his hand to support me while I step into the Christian Louboutin shoes, a steal at
three-thousand two hundred ninety-five dollars. I must be at least five inches taller now.
He leads me to the bedside and doesn’t sit, but walks over to the only chair in the room. Picking
it up, he carries it over and places it in front of me.
“When I nod, you bend down and hold on to the chair. Understand?” His voice is husky.
“Yes.”
“Good. Now open your mouth,” he orders, his voice still low.
I do as I’m told, thinking that he’s going to put the balls in my mouth again to lubricate them.
No, he slips his index finger in.
Oh...
“Suck,” he says. I reach up and clasp his hand, holding him steady, and do as I’m told—see, I can
be obedient, when I want.He tastes of soap... hmm. I suck hard, and I’m rewarded when his eyes widen and his lips part as
he inhales. I’m not going to need any lubricant at this rate. He puts the balls in his mouth as I fellate
his finger, twirling my tongue round it. When he tries to withdraw it, I clamp my teeth down.
He grins then shakes his head, admonishing me, so I let go. He nods, and I bend down and grasp
the sides of the chair. He moves my panties to one side and very slowly slides a finger into me,
circling leisurely, so I feel him, on all sides. I can’t help the moan that escapes from my lips.
He withdraws his finger briefly and with tender care, inserts the balls one at a time, pushing them
deep inside me. Once they are in position, he smoothes my panties back into place and kisses my
backside. Running his hands up each of my legs from ankle to thigh, he gently kisses the top of each
thigh where my hold-ups finish.
“You have fine, fine legs, Miss Steele,” he murmurs.
Standing, he grasps my hips and pulls my behind against him so I feel his erection.
“Maybe I’ll have you this way when we get home, Anastasia. You can stand now.”
I feel giddy, beyond aroused as the weight of the balls push and pull inside me. Leaning down
from behind me Christian kisses my shoulder.
“I bought these for you to wear to last Saturday’s gala.” He puts his arm around me and holds out
his hand. In his palm rests a small red box with Cartier inscribed on the lid. “But you left me, so I
never had the opportunity to give them to you.”
Oh!
“This is my second chance,” he murmurs, his voice stiff with some unnamed emotion. He’s
nervous.
Tentatively, I reach for the box and open it. Inside shines a pair of drop earrings. Each has four
diamonds, one at the base, then a gap, then three perfectly spaced diamonds hanging one after the
other. They’re beautiful, simple, and classic. What I would choose myself, if I were ever given the
opportunity to shop at Cartier.
“They’re lovely,” I whisper, and because they are second-chance earrings, I love them. “Thank
you.”
He relaxes against me as the tension leaves his body, and he kisses my shoulder again.
“You’re wearing the silver satin dress?” he asks.
“Yes? Is that okay?”
“Of course. I’ll let you get ready.” He heads out the door without a backward glance.
I have entered an alternate universe. The young woman staring back at me looks worthy of a red
carpet. Her strapless, floor-length, silver satin gown is simply stunning. Maybe I’ll write to Caroline
Acton myself. It’s fitted and flatters what little curves I have.
My hair falls in soft waves around my face, spilling over my shoulders to my breasts. I tuck one
side behind my ear, revealing my second-chance earrings. I have kept my makeup to a minimum, a
natural look. Eyeliner, mascara, a little pink blush, and pale pink lipstick.
I don’t really need the blush. I am slightly flushed from the constant movement of the silver
balls. Yes, they’ll guarantee I have some color in my cheeks tonight. Shaking my head at the audacity
of Christian’s erotic ideas, I lean down to collect my satin wrap and silver clutch purse and go in
search of my Fifty Shades.
He is talking to Taylor and three other men in the hallway, his back to me. Their surprised,
appreciative expressions alert Christian to my presence. He turns as I stand and wait awkwardly.Holy cow! My mouth dries. He looks stunning... Black dinner suit, black bow tie, and his
expression as he gazes at me is one of awe. He strolls toward me and kisses my hair.
“Anastasia. You look breathtaking.”
I flush at this compliment in front of Taylor and the other men.
“A glass of champagne before we go?”
“Please,” I murmur, far too quickly.
Christian nods to Taylor who heads into the foyer with his three cohorts.
In the great room, Christian retrieves a bottle of champagne from the fridge.
“Security team?” I ask.
“Close protection. They’re under Taylor’s control. He’s trained in that, too.” Christian hands me
a champagne flute.
“He’s very versatile.”
“Yes, he is.” Christian smiles. “You look lovely, Anastasia. Cheers.” He raises his glass, and I
clink it with mine. The champagne is a pale rose color. It tastes deliciously crisp and light.
“How are you feeling?” he asks, his eyes heated.
“Fine, thank you.” I smile sweetly, giving nothing away, knowing full well he’s referring to the
silver balls.
He smirks at me.
“Here, you’re going to need this.” He hands me a large velvet pouch that was resting on the
kitchen island. “Open it,” he says between sips of champagne. Intrigued, I reach into the bag and pull
out an intricate silver masquerade mask with cobalt blue feathers in a plume crowning the top.
“It’s a masked ball,” he states matter-of-factly.
“I see.” The mask is beautiful. A silver ribbon is threaded around the edges and exquisite silver
filigree is etched around the eyes.
“This will show off your beautiful eyes, Anastasia.”
I grin at him, shyly.
“Are you wearing one?”
“Of course. They’re very liberating in a way,” he adds, raising an eyebrow, and he smirks.
Oh. This is going to be fun.
“Come. I want to show you something.” Holding out his hand, he leads me out into the hallway
and to a door beside the stairs. He opens it, revealing a large room roughly the same size as his
playroom, which must be directly above us. This one is filled with books. Wow, a library, every wall
crammed floor to ceiling. In the center is a full-size billiard table illuminated by a long triangular-
prism-shaped Tiffany lamp.
“You have a library!” I squeak in awe, overwhelmed with excitement.
“Yes, the balls room as Elliot calls it. The apartment is quite spacious. I realized today, when you
mentioned exploring, that I’ve never given you a tour. We don’t have time now, but I thought I’d show
you this room, and maybe challenge you to a game of billiards in the not-too-distant future.”
I grin at him.
“Bring it on.” I secretly hug myself with glee. José and I bonded over pool. We’ve been playing
for the last three years. I am ace with a cue. José has been a good teacher.
“What?” Christian asks, amused.
Oh! I really must stop expressing every emotion I feel the instant I feel it, I scold myself.
“Nothing,” I say quickly.
Christian narrows his eyes.
“Well, maybe Doctor Flynn can uncover your secrets. You’ll meet him this evening.”“The expensive charlatan?” Holy shit.
“The very same. He’s dying to meet you.”
Christian takes my hand and gently skims his thumb across my knuckles as we sit in the back of the
Audi heading north. I squirm, and feel the sensation in my groin. I resist the urge to moan, as Taylor is
in the front, not wearing his iPod, with one of the security guys whose name I think is Sawyer.
I am beginning to feel a dull, pleasurable ache deep in my belly, caused by the balls. Idly, I
wonder, how long will I be able to manage without some, um... relief? I cross my legs. As I do,
something that’s been niggling me in the back of my mind suddenly surfaces.
“Where did you get the lipstick?” I ask Christian quietly.
He smirks at me and points toward the front. “Taylor,” he mouths.
I burst out laughing. “Oh.” And stop quickly—the balls.
I bite my lip. Christian smiles at me, his eyes gleaming wickedly. He knows exactly what he’s
doing, sexy beast that he is.
“Relax,” he breathes. “If it’s too much...” His voice trails off, and he gently kisses each knuckle
in turn, then gently sucks the tip of my little finger.
Now I know he’s doing this on purpose. I close my eyes as dark desire unfolds throughout my
body. I surrender briefly to the sensation, my muscles clenching deep inside me. Oh my.
When I open my eyes again, Christian is regarding me closely, a dark prince. It must be the
dinner jacket and bow tie, but he looks older, sophisticated, a devastatingly handsome roué with
licentious intent.
He simply takes my breath away. I’m in his sexual thrall, and if I’m to believe him, he’s in mine.
The thought brings a smile to my face, and his answering grin is blinding.
“So what can we expect at this event?”
“Oh, the usual stuff,” Christian says breezily.
“Not usual for me,” I remind him.
Christian smiles fondly and kisses my hand again. “Lots of people flashing their cash. Auction,
raffle, dinner, dancing—my mother knows how to throw a party.” He smiles and for the first time all
day, I allow myself to feel a little excited about this party.
There is a line of expensive cars heading up the driveway of the Grey mansion. Long, pale pink
paper lanterns hang over the drive, and as we inch closer in the Audi, I can see they are everywhere. In
the early evening light, they look magical, as if we’re entering an enchanted kingdom. I glance at
Christian. How suitable for my prince—and my childish excitement blooms, eclipsing all other
feelings.
“Masks on,” Christian grins, and as he dons his simple black mask, my prince becomes
something darker, more sensual.
All I can see of his face is his beautiful chiseled mouth and strong jaw.
Holy fuck... My heartbeat lurches at the sight of him. I fasten my mask and grin at him, ignoring
the hunger deep in my body.
Taylor pulls into the driveway, and a valet opens Christian’s door. Sawyer leaps out to open
mine.
“Ready?” Christian asks.
“As I’ll ever be.”
“You look beautiful, Anastasia.” He kisses my hand and exits the car.A dark green carpet runs along the lawn to one side of the house, leading to the impressive
grounds at the rear. Christian has a protective arm around me, resting his hand on my waist, as we
follow the green carpet with a steady stream of Seattle’s elite dressed in their finery and wearing all
manner of masks the lanterns lighting the way. Two photographers marshal guests to pose for pictures
against the backdrop of an ivy-strewn arbor.
“Mr. Grey!” one of the photographers calls. Christian nods in acknowledgement and pulls me
close as we pose quickly for a photo. How do they know it’s him? His trademark, unruly copper hair
no doubt.
“Two photographers?” I ask Christian.
“One is from the Seattle Times; the other is for a souvenir. We’ll be able to buy a copy later.”
Oh, my picture in the press again. Leila briefly enters my mind. This is how she found me, posing
with Christian. The thought is unsettling, though it’s comforting that I am unrecognizable beneath my
mask.
At the end of the line, white-suited servers hold trays of glasses brimming with champagne, and
I’m grateful when Christian passes me a glass—effectively distracting me from my dark thoughts.
We approach a large white pergola hung with smaller versions of the paper lanterns. Beneath it,
shines a black and white checkered dance floor surrounded by a low fence with entrances on three
sides. At each entrance stand two elaborate ice sculptures of swans. The fourth side of the pergola is
occupied by a stage where a string quartet is playing softly, a haunting, ethereal piece I don’t
recognize. The stage looks set for a big band but as there’s no sign of the musicians yet. I figure this
must be for later. Taking my hand, Christian leads me between swans onto the dance floor where the
other guests are congregating, chatting over glasses of champagne.
Toward the shoreline stands an enormous marquee, open on the side nearest to us so I can
glimpse the formally arranged tables and chairs. There are so many!
“How many people are coming?” I ask Christian, thrown by the scale of the marquee.
“I think about three hundred. You’ll have to ask my mother.” He smiles down at me, and maybe
it’s because I can only see his smile that lights up his face, but my inner goddess swoons.
“Christian!”
A young woman appears out of the throng and throws her arms around his neck, and immediately
I know it’s Mia. She’s dressed in a sleek, pale pink, full-length chiffon gown with a stunning,
delicately detailed Venetian mask to match. She looks amazing. And for a moment, I have never felt
so grateful for the dress Christian has given me.
“Ana! Oh, darling, you look gorgeous!” She gives me a quick hug. “You must come and meet my
friends. None of them can believe that Christian finally has a girlfriend.”
I shoot a quick panicked glance at Christian, who shrugs in a resigned I-know-she’s-impossible-I-
had-to-live-with-her-for-years way, and let Mia lead me over to a group of four young women, all
expensively attired and impeccably groomed.
Mia makes hasty introductions. Three of them are sweet and kind, but Lily, I think her name is,
regards me sourly from beneath her red mask.
“Of course we all thought Christian was gay,” she says snidely, concealing her rancor with a
large, fake smile.
Mia pouts at her.
“Lily, behave yourself. It’s obvious he has excellent taste in women. He was waiting for the right
one to come along, and it wasn’t you!”
Lily blushes the same color as her mask, as do I. Could this be any more uncomfortable?
“Ladies, if I could claim my date back, please?” Snaking his arm around my waist, Christian
pulls me to his side. All four women flush, grin and fidget, his dazzling smile doing what it alwaysdoes. Mia glances at me and rolls her eyes, and I have to laugh.
“Lovely to meet you,” I say as he drags me away.
“Thank you,” I mouth at Christian when we’re some distance away.
“I saw that Lily was with Mia. She is one nasty piece of work.”
“She likes you,” I mutter dryly.
He shudders. “Well, the feeling is not mutual. Come, let me introduce you to some people.”
I spend the next half hour in a whirlwind of introductions. I meet two Hollywood actors, two
more CEOs, and several eminent physicians. Holy shit... there is no way I am going to remember
everyone’s name.
Christian keeps me close at his side, and I’m grateful. Frankly, the wealth, the glamour, and the
sheer lavish scale of the event intimidates me. I have never been to anything like this in my life.
The white-suited servers move effortlessly through the growing crowd of guests with bottles of
champagne, topping off my glass with worrying regularity. I must not drink too much. I must not drink
too much, I repeat to myself, but I’m beginning to feel light-headed, and I don’t know if it’s the
champagne, the charged atmosphere of mystery and excitement created by the masks, or the secret
silver balls. The dull ache below my waist is becoming impossible to ignore.
“So you work at SIP?” asks a balding gentleman in a half-bear—or is it a dog?—mask. “Heard
rumors of a hostile takeover.”
I flush. There is a hostile takeover from a man who has more money than sense and is a stalker
par excellence.
“I’m just a lowly assistant, Mr. Eccles. I wouldn’t know about these things.”
Christian says nothing and smiles blandly at Eccles.
“Ladies and gentlemen!” The master of ceremonies, wearing an impressive black and white
harlequin mask, interrupts us. “Please take your seats. Dinner is served.”
Christian takes my hand, and we follow the chattering crowd to the large marquee.
The interior is stunning. Three enormous, shallow chandeliers throw rainbow-colored sparkles
over the ivory silk lining of the ceiling and walls. There must be at least thirty tables, and they remind
me of the private dining room at the Heathman—crystal glasses, crisp white linen covering the tables
and chairs, and in the center, an exquisite display of pale pink peonies gathered around a silver
candelabra. Wrapped in gossamer silk beside it is a basket of goodies.
Christian consults the seating plan and leads me to a table in the center. Mia and Grace are
already in situ, deep in conversation with a young man I don’t know. Grace is wearing a shimmering
mint green gown with a Venetian mask to match. She looks radiant, not stressed at all, and she greets
me warmly.
“Ana, how delightful to see you again! And looking so beautiful, too.”
“Mother,” Christian greets her stiffly and kisses her on both cheeks.
“Oh, Christian, so formal!” she scolds him teasingly.
Grace’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Trevelyan, join us at our table. They seem exuberant and youthful,
though it’s difficult to tell beneath their matching bronze masks. They are delighted to see Christian.
“Grandmother, Grandfather, may I introduce Anastasia Steele?”
Mrs. Trevelyan is all over me like a rash. “Oh, he’s finally found someone, how wonderful and so
pretty! Well I do hope you make an honest man of him,” she gushes, shaking my hand.
Holy cow. I thank the heavens for my mask.
“Mother, don’t embarrass Ana.” Grace comes to my rescue.
“Ignore the silly old coot, m’dear.” Mr. Trevelyan shakes my hand. “She thinks because she’s so
old, she has a God-given right to say whatever nonsense pops into that woolly head of hers.”“Ana, this is my date, Sean.” Mia shyly introduces her young man. He gives me a wicked grin,
and his brown eyes dance with amusement as we shake hands.
“Pleased to meet you, Sean.”
Christian shakes Sean’s hand as he regards him shrewdly. Don’t tell me that poor Mia suffers
from her overbearing brother, too. I smile at Mia in sympathy.
Lance and Janine, Grace’s friends, are the last couple at our table, but there is still no sign of Mr.
Grey.
Abruptly, there’s the hiss of a microphone, and Mr. Grey’s voice booms over the PA system,
causing the babble of voices to die down. Carrick stands on a small stage at one end of the marquee,
wearing an impressive, gold, Punchinello mask.
“Welcome, ladies and gentleman, to our annual charity ball. I hope that you enjoy what we have
laid out for you tonight and that you’ll dig deep into your pockets to support the fantastic work that
our team does with Coping Together. As you know, it’s a cause that is very close to my wife’s heart,
and mine.”
I peek nervously at Christian, who is staring impassively, I think, at the stage. He glances at me
and smirks.
“I’ll hand you over now to our master of ceremonies. Please be seated, and enjoy,” Carrick
finishes.
Polite applause follows, then the babble in the tent starts again. I am seated between Christian
and his grandfather. I admire the small white place card with fine silver calligraphy that bears my
name as a waiter lights the candelabra with a long taper. Carrick joins us, kissing me on both cheeks,
surprising me.
“Good to see you again, Ana,” he murmurs. He really looks very striking in his extraordinary
gold mask.
“Ladies and gentlemen, please nominate a table head,” the MC calls out.
“Ooo—me, me!” says Mia immediately, bouncing enthusiastically in her seat.
“In the center of the table you will find an envelope,” the MC continues. “Would everyone find,
beg, borrow, or steal a bill of the highest denomination you can manage, write your name on it, and
place it inside the envelope. Table heads, please guard these envelopes carefully. We will need them
later.”
Holy crap. I haven’t brought any money with me. How stupid—it’s a charity event!
Fishing out his wallet, Christian produces two hundred-dollar bills.
“Here,” he says.
What?
“I’ll pay you back,” I whisper.
His mouth twists slightly, and I know he’s not happy, but he doesn’t comment. I sign my name
using his fountain pen—it’s black, with a white flower motif on the cap—and Mia passes the envelope
round.
In front of me I find another card inscribed with silver calligraphy—our menu.Well, that accounts for the number of crystal glasses in every size that crowd my place setting.
Our waiter is back, offering wine and water. Behind me, the sides of the tent through which we entered
are being closed, while at the front, two servers pull back the canvas, revealing the sunset over Seattle
and Meydenbauer Bay.
It’s an absolutely breathtaking view, the twinkling lights of Seattle in the distance and the orange,
dusky calm of the bay reflecting the opal sky. Wow. It’s so calm and peaceful.
Ten servers, each holding a plate, come to stand between us. On a silent cue, they serve us our
starters in complete synchronization, then vanish again. The salmon looks delicious, and I realize I am
famished.
“Hungry?” Christian murmurs so only I can hear. I know he’s not referring to the food, and the
muscles deep in my belly respond.
“Very,” I whisper, boldly meeting his gaze, and Christian’s lips part as he inhales.
Ha! See... two can play at this game.
Christian’s grandfather engages me in conversation immediately. He’s a wonderful old man, so
proud of his daughter and three children.
It is weird to think of Christian as a child. The memory of his burn scars come unbidden to my
mind, but I quickly quash it. I don’t want to think about that now, though ironically, it’s the reason
behind this party.
I wish Kate was here with Elliot. She would fit in so well—the sheer number of forks and knives
laid out before her wouldn’t daunt Kate—she would command the table. I imagine her duking it out
with Mia over who should be table head. The thought makes me smile.
The conversation at the table ebbs and flows. Mia is entertaining, as usual, and quite eclipses
poor Sean, who mostly stays quiet like me. Christian’s grandmother is the most vocal. She, too, has a
biting sense of humor, usually at the expense of her husband. I begin to feel a little sorry for Mr.
Trevelyan.
Christian and Lance talk animatedly about a device Christian’s company is developing, inspired
by Schumacher’s principle Small is Beautiful. It’s hard to keep up. Christian seems intent on
empowering impoverished communities all over the world with wind-up technology—devices that
need no electricity or batteries and minimal maintenance.
Watching him in full flow is astonishing. He’s passionate and committed to improving the livesof the less fortunate. Through his telecommunications company, he’s intent on being first to market
with a wind-up mobile phone.
Whoa. I had no idea. I mean I knew about his passion about feeding the world, but this...
Lance seems unable to comprehend Christian’s plan to give the technology away and not patent
it. I wonder vaguely how Christian made all his money if he’s so willing to give it all away.
Throughout dinner a steady stream of men in smartly tailored dinner jackets and dark masks stop
by the table, keen to meet Christian, shake his hand, and exchange pleasantries. He introduces me to
some but not others. I’m intrigued to know how and why he makes the distinction.
During one such conversation, Mia leans across and smiles.
“Ana, will you help in the auction?”
“Of course,” I respond only too willing.
By the time dessert is served, night has fallen, and I’m really uncomfortable. I need to get rid of
the balls. Before I can excuse myself, the master of ceremonies appears at our table, and with him—if
I’m not mistaken—is Miss European Pigtails.
What’s her name? Hansel, Gretel... Gretchen.
She’s masked of course, but I know it’s her when her gaze doesn’t move beyond Christian. She
blushes, and selfishly I’m beyond pleased that Christian doesn’t acknowledge her at all.
The MC asks for our envelope and with a very practiced and eloquent flourish, asks Grace to pull
out the winning bill. It’s Sean’s, and the silk-wrapped basket is awarded to him.
I applaud politely, but I’m finding it impossible to concentrate on any more of the proceedings.
“If you’ll excuse me,” I murmur to Christian.
He looks at me intently.
“Do you need the powder room?”
I nod.
“I’ll show you,” he says darkly.
When I stand, all the other men round the table stand with me. Oh, such manners.
“No, Christian! You’re not taking Ana—I will.”
Mia is on her feet before Christian can protest. His jaw tenses, I know he’s not pleased. Quite
frankly, neither am I. I have... needs. I shrug apologetically at him, and he sits down quickly, resigned.
On our return, I feel a little better, though the relief of removing the balls has not been as
instantaneous as I’d hoped. They’re now stashed safely in my clutch purse.
Why did I think I could last the whole evening? I am still yearning—perhaps I can persuade
Christian to take me to the boathouse later. I flush at the thought and glance at him as I take my seat.
He stares at me, the ghost of a smile crossing his lips.
Phew... he’s no longer mad at a missed opportunity, though maybe I am. I feel frustrated—
irritable even. Christian squeezes my hand, and we both listen attentively to Carrick, who is back on
stage talking about Coping Together. Christian passes me another card—a list of the auction prizes. I
scan them quickly.Holy shit. I blink up at Christian.
“You own property in Aspen?” I hiss. The auction is underway, and I have to keep my voice
down.
He nods, surprised at my outburst and irritated, I think. He puts his finger to his lips to silence
me.
“Do you have property elsewhere?” I whisper.He nods again and inclines his head to one side in a
warning.
The whole room erupts with cheering and applause; one of the prizes has gone for twelve
thousand dollars.
“I’ll tell you later,” Christian says quietly. “I wanted to come with you,” he adds rather sulkily.
Well, you didn’t. I pout and I realize that I’m still querulous, and no doubt, it’s the frustrating
effect of the balls. My mood darkens after seeing Mrs. Robinson on the list of generous donors.
I glance around the marquee to see if I can spot her, but I can’t see her telltale hair. Surely
Christian would have warned me if she was invited tonight. I sit and stew, applauding when necessary,
as each lot is sold for astonishing amounts of money.
The bidding moves to Christian’s place in Aspen and reaches twenty thousand dollars.
“Going once, going twice,” the MC calls.
And I don’t know what possesses me, but I suddenly hear my own voice ringing out clearly over
the throng.
“Twenty-four thousand dollars!”
Every mask at the table turns to me in shocked amazement, the biggest reaction of all coming
from beside me. I hear his sharp intake of breath and feel his wrath washing over me like a tidal wave.
“Twenty-four thousand dollars, to the lovely lady in silver, going once, going twice... Sold!”Holy shit, did I really just do that? It must be the alcohol. I’ve had champagne plus four glasses of
four different wines. I glance up at Christian who’s busy applauding.
Crap, he’s going to be so angry, and we’ve been getting on so well. My subconscious has finally
decided to make an appearance, and she’s wearing her Edvard Munch Scream face.
Christian leans over to me, a large fake smile plastered across his face. He kisses my cheek and
then moves closer to whisper in my ear in a very cold, controlled voice.
“I don’t know whether to worship at your feet or spank the living shit out of you.”
Oh, I know what I want right now. I gaze up at him, blinking through my mask. I just wish I could
read what’s in his eyes.
“I’ll take option two, please,” I whisper frantically as the applause dies down. His lips part as he
inhales sharply. Oh that chiseled mouth—I want it on me, now. I ache for him. He gives me a radiant
sincere smile that leaves me breathless.
“Suffering, are you? We’ll have to see what we can do about that,” he murmurs as he runs his
fingers along my jaw.
His touch resonates deep, deep inside where that ache has spawned and grown. I want to jump
him right here, right now, but we sit back to watch the auction of the next lot.
I can barely sit still. Christian drapes an arm around my shoulders, his thumb rhythmically
stroking my back, sending delicious tingles down my spine. His free hand clasps mine, bringing it to
his lips, then letting it rest on his lap.
Slowly and surreptitiously, so I don’t realize his game until it’s too late, he eases my hand up his
leg and against his erection. I gasp, and my eyes dart in panic around the table, but all eyes are fixed
on the stage. Thank heavens for my mask.
Taking full advantage, I slowly caress him, letting my fingers explore. Christian keeps his hand
over mine, hiding my bold fingers, while his thumb skates softly over the nape of my neck. His mouth
opens as he gasps softly, and it’s the only reaction I can see to my inexperienced touch. But it means
so much. He wants me. Everything south of my navel contracts. This is becoming unbearable.
A week by Lake Adriana in Montana is the final lot for auction. Of course Mr. and Dr. Grey have
a house in Montana, and the bidding escalates rapidly, but I am barely aware of it. I feel him growing
beneath my fingers, and it makes me feel so powerful.“Sold, for one hundred ten thousand dollars!” the MC declares victoriously. The whole room
bursts into applause, and reluctantly I follow as does Christian, ruining our fun.
He turns to me and his lips twitch. “Ready?” he mouths over the rapturous cheering.
“Yes,” I mouth back
“Ana!” Mia calls. “It’s time!”
What? No. Not again! “Time for what?”
“The First Dance Auction. Come on!” She stands and holds out her hand.
I glance at Christian who is, I think, scowling at Mia, and I don’t know whether to laugh or cry,
but it’s laughter that wins. I succumb to a cathartic bubble of schoolgirl giggles, as we are thwarted
once more by the tall, pink powerhouse that is Mia Grey. Christian peers at me, and after a beat,
there’s a ghost of a smile on his lips.
“The first dance will be with me, okay? And it won’t be on the dance floor,” he murmurs
lasciviously into my ear. My giggles subside as anticipation fans the flames of my need. Oh, yes! My
inner goddess performs a perfect triple Salchow in her ice skates.
“I look forward to it.” I lean over and plant a soft, chaste kiss on his mouth. Glancing around, I
realize that our fellow guests at the table are astonished. Of course, they’ve never seen Christian with
a date before.
He smiles broadly at me. And he looks... happy. Wow.
“Come on, Ana,” Mia nags. Taking her outstretched hand, I follow her onto the stage where ten
more young women have assembled, and I note with vague unease that Lily is one of them.
“Gentlemen, the highlight of the evening!” the MC booms over the babble of voices. “The
moment you’ve all been waiting for! These twelve lovely ladies have all agreed to auction their first
dance to the highest bidder!”
Oh no. I blush from head to toe. I hadn’t realized what this meant. How humiliating!
“It’s for a good cause,” Mia hisses at me, sensing my discomfort. “Besides, Christian will win.”
She rolls her eyes. “I can’t imagine him letting anyone outbid him. He hasn’t taken his eyes off you all
evening.”
Yes, focus on the good cause, and Christian is bound to win. Let’s face it, he’s not short of a dime
or two.
But it means spending more money on you! my subconscious snarls at me. But I don’t want to
dance with anyone else—I can’t dance with anyone else—and it’s not spending money on me, he’s
donating it to the charity. Like the twenty-four thousand dollars he’s already spent? My subconscious
narrows her eyes.
Shit. I seem to have gotten away with my impulsive bid. Why am I arguing with myself?
“Now, gentlemen, pray gather round, and take a good look at what could be yours for the first
dance. Twelve comely and compliant wenches.”
Jeez! I feel like I’m in a meat market. I watch, horrified, as at least twenty men make their way
to the stage area, Christian included, moving with easy grace between the tables and pausing to say a
few hellos on the way. Once the bidders are assembled, the MC begins.
“Ladies and gentlemen, in the tradition of the masquerade we shall maintain the mystery behind
the masks and stick to first names only. First up we have the lovely Jada.”
Jada is giggling like a schoolgirl, too. Maybe I won’t be so out of place. She’s dressed head to
foot in navy taffeta with a matching mask. Two young men step forward expectantly. Lucky Jada.
“Jada speaks fluent Japanese, is a qualified fighter pilot, and an Olympic gymnast... hmm.” The
MC winks. “Gentleman, what am I bid?”
Jada gapes, astounded at the MC; obviously, he’s talking complete garbage. She grins shyly backat the two contenders.
“A thousand bucks!” one calls.
Very quickly the bidding escalates to five thousand dollars.
“Going once... going twice... sold!” the MC declares loudly, “to the gentleman in the mask!” And
of course all the men are wearing masks so there are hoots of laughter, applause, and cheering. Jada
beams at her purchaser and quickly exits the stage.
“See? This is fun!” whispers Mia. “I hope Christian wins you, though... We don’t want a brawl,”
she adds.
“Brawl?” I answer horrified.
“Oh yes. He was very hot-headed when he was younger.” She shudders.
Christian brawling? Refined, sophisticated, likes-Tudor-choral-music Christian? I can’t see it.
The MC distracts me with his next introduction—a young woman in red, with long jet-black hair.
“Gentlemen, may I present the wonderful Mariah. What are we going to do about Mariah? She’s
an experienced matador, plays the cello to concert standard, and she’s a champion pole-vaulter... how
about that, gentlemen? What am I bid, please, for a dance with the delightful Mariah?”
Mariah glares at the MC and someone yells, very loudly, “Three thousand dollars!” It’s a masked
man with blond hair and beard.
There is one counter-bid, but Mariah sells for four thousand dollars.
Christian is watching me like a hawk. Brawler Trevelyan-Grey—who would have known?
“How long ago?” I ask Mia.
She glances at me, nonplussed.
“How long ago was Christian brawling?”
“Early teens. Drove my parents crazy, coming home with cut lips and black eyes. He was
expelled from two schools. He inflicted some serious damage on his opponents.”
I gape at her.
“Hasn’t he told you?” She sighs. “He got quite a bad rep among my friends. He was really
persona non grata for a few years. But it stopped when he was about fifteen or sixteen.” She shrugs.
Holy fuck. Another piece of the jigsaw falls into place.
“So, what am I bid for the gorgeous Jill?”
“Four thousand dollars,” a deep voice calls from the left side. Jill squeals in delight.
I stop paying attention to the auction. So Christian was in that kind of trouble at school, fighting.
I wonder why. I stare at him. Lily is watching us closely.
“And now, allow me to introduce the beautiful Ana.”
Oh shit, that’s me. I glance nervously at Mia, and she shoos me center stage. Fortunately, I don’t
fall over, but stand embarrassed as hell on display for everyone. When I look at Christian, he’s
smirking at me. The bastard.
“Beautiful Ana plays six musical instruments, speaks fluent Mandarin, and is keen on yoga...
well, gentlemen—” Before he can even finish his sentence Christian interrupts him, glaring at the MC
through his mask.
“Ten thousand dollars.” I hear Lily’s gasp of disbelief behind me.
Oh fuck.
“Fifteen.”
What? We all turn as one to a tall, impeccably dressed man standing to the left of the stage. I
blink at Fifty. Shit, what will he make of this? But he’s scratching his chin and giving the stranger an
ironic smile. It’s obvious Christian knows him. The stranger nods politely at Christian.
“Well, gentlemen! We have high rollers in the house this evening.” The MC’s excitementemanates through his harlequin mask as he turns to beam at Christian. This is a great show, but it’s at
my expense. I want to wail.
“Twenty,” counters Christian quietly.
The babble of the crowd has died. Everyone is staring at me, Christian, and Mr. Mysterious by
the stage.
“Twenty-five,” the stranger says.
Could this be any more embarrassing?
Christian stares at him impassively, but he’s amused. All eyes are on Christian. What’s he going
to do? My heart is in my mouth. I feel sick.
“One hundred thousand dollars,” he says his voice ringing clear and loud through the marquee.
“What the fuck?” Lily hisses audibly behind me, and a general gasp of dismay and amusement
ripples through the crowd. The stranger holds his hands up in defeat, laughing, and Christian smirks at
him. From the corner of my eye, I can see Mia bouncing up and down with glee. My subconscious is
gazing at Christian, utterly gobsmacked.
“One-hundred thousand dollars for the lovely Ana! Going once... going twice...” The MC stares at
the stranger who shakes his head with mock regret and bows chivalrously.
“Sold!” the MC cries out triumphantly.
In a deafening round of applause and cheering, Christian steps forward to take my hand and help
me from the stage. He gazes at me with an amused grin as I make my way down, kisses the back of my
hand then tucks it into the crook of his arm, and leads me toward the marquee’s exit.
“Who was that?” I ask.
He gazes down at me. “Someone you can meet later. Right now, I want to show you something.
We have about thirty minutes until the First Dance Auction finishes. Then we have to be back on the
dance floor so that I can enjoy that dance I’ve paid for.”
“A very expensive dance,” I mutter disapprovingly.
“I’m sure it’ll be worth every single cent.” He smiles down at me wickedly. Oh, he has a glorious
smile, and the ache is back, blossoming in my body.
We’re out on the lawn. I thought we would be heading to the boathouse, but disappointingly we
seem to be heading for the dance floor where the big band is now setting up. There are at least twenty
musicians, and a few guests are milling about, furtively smoking—but since most of the action is back
in the marquee, we don’t attract too much attention.
Christian leads me to the rear of the house and opens a French window leading into a large
comfortable sitting room that I’ve not seen before. He walks through the deserted hall toward the
sweeping staircase with its elegant, polished wooden balustrade. Taking my hand from the crook of
his arm, he leads me up to the second floor and up another flight of stairs to the third. Opening a white
door, he ushers me into one of the bedrooms.
“This was my room,” he says quietly, standing by the door and locking it behind him.
It’s large, stark, and sparsely furnished. The walls are white as is the furniture; a spacious double
bed, a desk and chair, shelves crammed with books and lined with various trophies for kickboxing by
the look of them. The walls are hung with movie posters: The Matrix, Fight Club, The Truman Show,
and two framed posters featuring kick boxers. One is named Guiseppe DeNatale—I’ve never heard of
him.
But what catches my eye is the white pin board above the desk, studded with a myriad of
photographs, Mariners pennants, and ticket stubs. It’s a slice of young Christian. My eyes come back
to the magnificent, beautiful man now standing in the center of the room. He looks at me darkly,
brooding and sexy.
“I’ve never brought a girl in here,” he murmurs.“Never?” I whisper.
He shakes his head.
I swallow convulsively, and the ache that has been bothering me for the last couple of hours is
roaring now, raw and wanting. Seeing him standing there on the royal blue carpet in that mask... it’s
beyond erotic. I want him. Now. Any way I can get him. I have to resist launching myself at him and
ripping his clothes off. He waltzes over to me slowly.
“We don’t have long, Anastasia, and the way I’m feeling right this moment, we won’t need long.
Turn round. Let me get you out of that dress.”
I turn and stare at the door, grateful that he’s locked it. Bending down he whispers softly in my
ear, “Keep the mask on.”
I groan as my body clenches in response. He’s not even touched me yet.
He grasps the top of my dress, his fingers sliding against my skin, and the touch reverberates
through my body. In one swift move, he opens the zipper. Holding my dress, he helps me to step out of
it, then turns and drapes it artfully over the back of a chair. Removing his jacket, he places it over my
dress. He pauses, and stares at me for a moment, drinking me in. I’m in the basque and matching
panties, and I revel in his sensuous gaze.
“You know, Anastasia,” he says softly as he stalks toward me, undoing his bow tie so it hangs
from either side of his neck, then undoing the top three buttons of his shirt. “I was so mad when you
bought my auction lot. All manner of ideas ran through my head. I had to remind myself that
punishment is off the menu. But then you volunteered.” He gazes down at me through his mask. “Why
did you do that?” he whispers.
“Volunteer? I don’t know. Frustration... too much alcohol... worthy cause,” I mutter meekly,
shrugging. Maybe to get his attention?
I needed him then. I need him more now. The ache is worse, and I know he can soothe it, calm
this roaring, salivating beast in me with the beast in him. His mouth presses into a line, and he slowly
licks his upper lip. I want that tongue on me.
“I vowed to myself I would not spank you again, even if you begged me.”
“Please,” I beg.
“But then I realized, you’re probably very uncomfortable at the moment, and it’s not something
you’re used to.” He smirks at me knowingly, arrogant bastard, but I don’t care because he’s absolutely
right.
“Yes,” I breathe.
“So, there might be a certain... latitude. If I do this, you must promise me one thing.”
“Anything.”
“You will safe word if you need to, and I will just make love to you, okay?”
“Yes.” I’m panting. I want his hands on me.
He swallows, then takes my hand, and moves toward the bed. Throwing the duvet aside, he sits
down, grabs a pillow, and places it beside him. He gazes up at me standing beside him and suddenly
tugs hard on my hand so that I fall across his lap. He shifts slightly so my body is resting on the bed,
my chest on the pillow, my face to one side. Leaning over, he sweeps my hair over my shoulder and
runs his fingers through the plume of feathers on my mask.
“Put your hands behind your back,” he murmurs.
Oh! He removes his bow tie and uses it to quickly bind my wrists so that my hands are tied
behind me, resting in the small of my back.
“You really want this, Anastasia?”
I close my eyes. This is the first time since I met him that I really want this. I need it.
“Yes,” I whisper.“Why?” he asks softly as he caresses my behind with his palm.
I groan as soon as his hand makes contact with my skin. I don’t know why... You tell me not to
overthink. After a day like today—arguing about the money, Leila, Mrs. Robinson, the dossier on me,
the roadmap, this lavish party, the masks, the alcohol, the silver balls, the auction... I want this.
“Do I need a reason?”
“No, baby, you don’t,” he says. “I’m just trying to understand you.” His left hand curls round my
waist, holding me in place as his palm leaves my behind and lands hard, just above the junction of my
thighs. The pain connects directly with the ache in my belly
Oh man... I moan loudly. He hits me again, in exactly the same place. I groan again.
“Two,” he murmurs. “We’ll go with twelve.”
Oh my! This feels different than the last time—so carnal, so... necessary. He caresses my behind
with his long-fingered hands, and I’m helpless, trussed up and pressed into the mattress, at his mercy,
and of my own free will. He hits me again, slightly to the side, and again, to the other side, then pauses
as he slowly peels my panties down and pulls them off. He gently trails his palm across my behind
again before continuing my spanking—each stinging smack taking the edge off my need—or fueling it
—I don’t know. I surrender myself to the rhythm of blows, absorbing each one, savoring each one.
“Twelve,” he murmurs his voice low and harsh. He caresses my behind again and trails his
fingers down toward my sex and slowly sinks two fingers inside me, moving them in a circle, round
and round and round, torturing me.
I moan loudly as my body takes over, and I come and come, convulsing around his fingers. It’s so
intense, unexpected, and quick.
“That’s right, baby,” he murmurs appreciatively. He unties my wrists, keeping his fingers inside
me as I lie panting and spent over him.
“I’ve not finished with you yet, Anastasia,” he says and shifts without removing his fingers. He
eases my knees on to the floor so that now I’m leaning over the bed. He kneels on the floor behind me
and undoes his zipper. He slides his fingers out of me, and I hear the familiar tear of a foil packet.
“Open your legs,” he growls and I comply. He strokes my behind and eases into me.
“This is going to be quick, baby,” he murmurs and grabbing my hips, he eases out then slams into
me.
“Ah!” I cry out but the fullness is heavenly. He’s hitting the bellyache square on, again and again,
eradicating it with each sharp, sweet thrust. The feeling is mind-blowing, just what I need. I push back
to meet him, thrust for thrust.
“Ana, no,” he grunts, trying to still me. But I want him too much, and I grind against him,
matching him thrust for thrust.
“Ana, shit,” he hisses as he comes, and the tortured sound sets me off again, spiraling into a
healing orgasm that goes on and on and wrings me out and leaves me spent and breathless.
Christian bends and kisses my shoulder then pulls out of me. Placing his arms around me, he
rests his head in the middle of my back, and we lie like this, both kneeling at the bedside, for what?
Seconds? Minutes even as our breathing calms. My bellyache has disappeared, and all I feel is a
soothing, satisfying serenity.
Christian stirs and kisses my back. “I believe you owe me a dance, Miss Steele,” he murmurs.
“Hmm,” I respond, savoring the absence of achiness and basking in the afterglow.
He sits back on his heels and pulls me off the bed onto his lap. “We don’t have long. Come on.”
He kisses my hair and forces me to stand.
I grumble but sit back down on the bed and collect my panties from the floor and scoop them on.
Lazily I walk to the chair to retrieve my dress. I note with dispassionate interest that I did not removemy shoes during our illicit tryst. Christian is tying his bow tie, having finished straightening himself
and the bed.
As I slip my dress back on, I check out the photographs on the pin board. Christian as a sullen
teen was gorgeous even then: with Elliot and Mia on the ski slopes; on his own in Paris, the Arc de
Triomphe serving as a giveaway background; in London; New York; the Grand Canyon; Sydney Opera
House; even the Great Wall of China. Master Grey was well traveled at a young age.
There are ticket stubs to various concerts: U2, Metallica, The Verve, Sheryl Crow, the New York
Philharmonic performing Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet—what an eclectic mix! And in the corner,
there’s a passport-size photograph of a young woman. It’s in black and white. She looks familiar, but
for the life of me, I can’t place her. Not Mrs. Robinson, thank heavens.
“Who’s this?” I ask.
“No one of consequence,” he mutters as he slips on his jacket and straightens his bow tie. “Shall I
zip you up?”
“Please. Then why is she on your pin board?”
“An oversight on my part. How’s my tie?” He raises his chin like a small boy, and I grin and
straighten it for him.
“Now it’s perfect.”
“Like you,” he murmurs and grabs me, kissing me passionately. “Feeling better?”
“Much, thank you, Mr. Grey.”
“The pleasure was all mine, Miss Steele.”
The guests are assembling on the dance floor. Christian grins at me—we’ve made it just in time—and
he leads me onto the checkered floor.
“And now, ladies and gentlemen, it’s time for the first dance. Mr. and Dr. Grey, are you ready?”
Carrick nods in agreement, his arms around Grace.
“Ladies and gentlemen of the First Dance Auction, are you ready?” We all nod in agreement. Mia
is with someone I don’t recognize. I wonder what happened to Sean?
“Then we shall begin. Take it away, Sam!”
A young man strolls onto the stage amid warm applause, turns to the band behind him and snaps
his fingers. The familiar strains of “I’ve Got You Under My Skin” fill the air.
Christian smiles down at me, takes me in his arms, and starts to move. Oh, he dances so well,
making it easy to follow. We grin at each other like idiots as he whirls me around the dance floor.
“I love this song,” Christian murmurs, gazing down at me. “Seems very fitting.” He’s no longer
grinning, but serious.
“You’re under my skin, too,” I respond. “Or you were in your bedroom.”
He purses his lips but he’s unable to hide his amusement.
“Miss Steele,” he admonishes me teasingly, “I had no idea you could be so crude.”
“Mr. Grey, neither did I. I think it’s all my recent experiences. They’ve been an education.”
“For both of us.” Christian is serious again, and it could just be the two of us and the band. We
are in our own private bubble.
As the song finishes we both applaud. Sam the singer bows graciously and introduces his band.
“May I cut in?”
I recognize the man who bid on me at the auction. Christian grudgingly lets me go, but he’s
amused, too.“Be my guest. Anastasia, this is John Flynn. John, Anastasia.”
Shit!
Christian smirks at me and wanders off to one side of the dance floor.
“How do you do, Anastasia?” Dr. Flynn says smoothly, and I realize he’s British.
“Hello,” I stutter.
The band strikes up another song, and Dr. Flynn pulls me into his arms. He’s much younger than
I imagined, though I can’t see his face. He’s wearing a mask similar to Christian’s. He’s tall, but not
as tall as Christian, and he doesn’t move with Christian’s easy grace.
What do I say to him? Why is Christian so fucked-up? Why did he bid on me? It’s the only thing
I want to ask him, but somehow that seems rude.
“I’m glad to finally meet you, Anastasia. Are you enjoying yourself?” he asks.
“I was,” I whisper.
“Oh. I hope I’m not responsible for your change of heart.” He gives me a brief, warm smile that
puts me a little more at ease.
“Doctor Flynn, you’re the shrink. You tell me.”
He grins. “That’s the problem, isn’t it? The shrink bit?”
I giggle. “I’m worried what I might reveal, so I’m a little self-conscious and intimidated. And
really I only want to ask you about Christian.”
He smiles. “First, this is a party so I’m not on duty,” he whispers conspiratorially. “And second, I
really can’t talk to you about Christian. Besides,” he teases, “we’d need until Christmas.”
I gasp in shock.
“That’s a doctor’s joke, Anastasia.”
I flush, embarrassed, and then feel slightly resentful. He’s making a joke at Christian’s expense.
“You’ve just confirmed what I’ve been saying to Christian... that you’re an expensive charlatan,” I
admonish him.
Dr. Flynn snorts with laughter. “You could be onto something there.”
“You’re British?”
“Yes. Originally from London.”
“How did you find yourself here?”
“Happy circumstance.”
“You don’t give much away, do you?”
“There’s not much to give away. I’m really a very dull person.”
“That’s very self-deprecating.”
“It’s a British trait. Part of our national character.”
“Oh.”
“And I could accuse you of the same, Anastasia.”
“That I’m a dull person, too, Dr. Flynn?”
He snorts. “No, Anastasia, that you don’t give much away.”
“There’s not much to give away.” I smile.
“I sincerely doubt that.” He unexpectedly frowns.
I flush, but the music finishes and Christian is once more by my side. Dr. Flynn releases me.
“It’s been a pleasure to meet you, Anastasia.” He gives me his warm smile again, and I feel that
I’ve passed some kind of hidden test.
“John.” Christian nods at him.
“Christian.” Dr. Flynn returns his nod, turns on his heel, and disappears through the crowd.
Christian pulls me into his arms for the next dance.
“He’s much younger than I expected,” I murmur to him. “And terribly indiscreet.”Christian cocks his head to one side. “Indiscreet?”
“Oh yes, he told me everything,” I tease.
Christian tenses. “Well, in that case, I’ll get your bag. I’m sure you want nothing more to do with
me,” he says softly.
I stop. “He didn’t tell me anything!” My voice fills with panic.
Christian blinks before relief floods his face. He pulls me into his arms again. “Then let’s enjoy
this dance.” He beams down, reassuring me, then spins me round.
Why would he think that I’d want to leave? It makes no sense.
We dance for two more numbers, and I realize I need the restroom.
“I won’t be long.”
As I make my way to the powder room, I remember I have left my purse on the dinner table, so I
head down to the marquee. When I enter, it’s still lit but quite deserted, except for a couple at the
other end, who really ought to get a room! I reach for my bag.
“Anastasia?”
A soft voice startles me, and I turn to see a woman dressed in a long, tight, black velvet gown.
Her mask is unique. It covers her face to her nose but also covers her hair. It’s stunning with elaborate
gold filigree.
“I’m so glad you’re on your own,” she says softly. “I’ve been wanting to talk to you all evening.”
“I’m sorry, I don’t know who you are.”
She pulls the mask from her face and releases her hair.
Shit! It’s Mrs. Robinson.
“I’m sorry, I startled you.”
I gape at her. Holy cow—what the fuck does this woman want?
I don’t know what the social conventions are for meeting known molesters of children. She’s
smiling sweetly and gesturing for me to sit at the table. And because I am lacking any sphere of
reference, I do as she asks out of stunned politeness, grateful that I am still wearing my mask.
“I’ll be brief, Anastasia. I know what you think of me... Christian’s told me.”
I gaze at her impassively, giving nothing away, but I’m pleased that she knows. It saves me
telling her, and she’s cutting to the chase. Part of me is beyond intrigued as to what she could have to
say.
She pauses, glancing over my shoulder. “Taylor’s watching us.”
I peek around to see him scanning the tent by the doorway. Sawyer is with him. They are looking
anywhere but at us.
“Look, we don’t have long,” she says hurriedly. “It must be obvious to you that Christian is in
love with you. I have never seen him like this, ever.” She emphasizes the last word.
What? Loves me? No. Why is she telling me? To reassure me? I don’t understand.
“He won’t tell you because he probably doesn’t realize it himself, notwithstanding what I’ve said
to him, but that’s Christian. He’s not very attuned to any positive feelings and emotions he may have.
He dwells far too much on the negative. But then you’ve probably worked that out for yourself. He
doesn’t think he’s worthy.”
I am reeling. Christian loves me? He hasn’t said it, and this woman has told him that’s how he
feels? How bizarre.
A hundred images dance through my head: the iPad, the gliding, flying to see me, all his actions,
his possessiveness, one hundred thousand dollars for a dance. Is this love?
And hearing it from this woman, having her confirm it for me is, frankly, unwelcome. I’d rather
hear it from him.My heart constricts. He feels unworthy? Why?
“I’ve never seen him so happy, and it’s obvious that you have feelings for him, too.” A brief
smile flits across her lips. “That’s great, and I wish you both the best of everything. But what I wanted
to say is if you hurt him again, I will find you, lady, and it won’t be pleasant when I do.”
She stares at me, ice-cold blue eyes boring into my skull, trying to get under my mask. Her threat
is so astonishing, so off the wall that an involuntary, disbelieving giggle escapes me. Of all the things
she could say to me, this is the least expected.
“You think this is funny, Anastasia?” she splutters in dismay. “You didn’t see him last Saturday.”
My face falls and darkens. The thought of Christian unhappy is not a palatable one, and last
Saturday I left him. He must have gone to her. The idea makes me queasy. Why am I sitting here
listening to this shit from her of all people? I slowly rise, gazing at her intently.
“I’m laughing at your audacity, Mrs. Lincoln. Christian and I have nothing to do with you. And if
I do leave him and you come looking for me, I’ll be waiting—don’t doubt it. And maybe I’ll give you
a taste of your own medicine on behalf of the fifteen-year-old child you molested and probably
fucked-up even more than he already was.”
Her mouth falls open.
“Now if you’ll excuse me, I have better things to do than waste my time with you.” I turn on my
heel, adrenaline and anger coursing through my body, and stalk toward the entrance of the tent where
Taylor is standing just as Christian arrives, looking flustered and worried.
“There you are,” he mutters, then frowns when he sees Elena.
I stride past him, saying nothing, giving him the opportunity to choose—her or me. He makes the
right choice.
“Ana,” he calls. I stop and face him as he catches up with me. “What’s wrong?” He gazes down at
me, concern etched on his face.
“Why don’t you ask your ex?” I hiss acidly.
His mouth twists and his eyes frost. “I’m asking you,” he says, his voice soft but with an
undertone of something far more menacing.
We glare at each other.
Okay, I can see this will end in a fight if I don’t tell him. “She’s threatening to come after me if I
hurt you again—probably with a whip,” I snap at him.
Relief flashes across his face, his mouth softening with humor. “Surely the irony of that isn’t lost
on you?” he says, and I can tell he’s trying hard to stifle his amusement.
“This isn’t funny, Christian!”
“No, you’re right. I’ll talk to her.” He adopts his serious face, though he’s still suppressing his
amusement.
“You will do no such thing.” I fold my arms, my anger spiking again.
He blinks at me, surprised by my outburst.
“Look, I know you’re tied up with her financially, forgive the pun, but—” I stop. What am I
asking him to do? Give her up? Stop seeing her? Can I do that? “I need the restroom.” I glare up at
him, my mouth set in a grim line.
He sighs and cocks his head to one side. Could he look any hotter? Is it the mask or just him?
“Please don’t be mad. I didn’t know she was here. She said she wasn’t coming.” His tone is
placating as if he’s talking to a child. Reaching up he runs his thumb along my pouting bottom lip.
“Don’t let Elena ruin our evening, please, Anastasia. She’s really old news.”
Old being the operative word, I think uncharitably, as he tips my chin up and gently grazes his
lips against mine. I sigh in agreement, blinking up at him. He straightens and takes my elbow.
“I’ll accompany you to the powder room so you don’t get interrupted again.”He leads me across the lawn toward the luxurious temporary restrooms. Mia said they had been
delivered for the occasion, but I had no idea they came in deluxe versions.
“I’ll wait here for you, baby,” he murmurs.
When I come out, my mood has moderated. I have decided not to let Mrs. Robinson blight my
evening because that’s probably what she wants. Christian is on the phone some distance away and out
of earshot of the few people laughing and chatting nearby. As I get closer, I can hear him. He’s very
terse.
“Why did you change your mind? I thought we’d agreed. Well, leave her alone... This is the first
regular relationship I’ve ever had, and I don’t want you jeopardizing it through some misplaced
concern for me. Leave. Her. Alone. I mean it, Elena.” He pauses, listening. “No, of course not.” He
frowns deeply as he says this. Glancing up, he sees me regarding him. “I have to go. Goodnight.” He
presses the off button.
I cock my head to one side and raise an eyebrow at him. Why is he phoning her?
“How’s the old news?”
“Cranky,” he replies sardonically. “Do you want to dance some more? Or would you like to go?”
He glances at his watch. “The fireworks start in five minutes.”
“I love fireworks.”
“We’ll stay and watch them, then.” He puts his arms around me and pulls me close. “Don’t let
her come between us, please.”
“She cares about you,” I mutter.
“Yes, and I her... as a friend.”
“I think it’s more than a friendship to her.”
His brow furrows. “Anastasia, Elena and I... it’s complicated. We have a shared history. But it is
just that, history. As I’ve said to you time and time again, she’s a good friend. That’s all. Please,
forget about her.” He kisses my hair, and in the interest of not ruining our evening, I let it go. I am just
trying to understand.
We wander hand in hand back to the dance floor. The band is still in full swing.
“Anastasia.”
I turn to find Carrick standing behind us.
“I wondered if you’d do me the honor of the next dance.” Carrick holds his hand out to me.
Christian shrugs and smiles, releasing my hand, and I let Carrick lead me onto the dance floor. Sam
the bandleader launches into “Come Fly with Me,” and Carrick puts his arm around my waist and
gently whirls me into the throng.
“I wanted to thank you for the generous contribution to our charity, Anastasia.”
From his tone, I suspect this is his roundabout way of asking whether I can afford it.
“Mr. Grey—”
“Call me Carrick, please, Ana.”
“I’m delighted to be able to contribute. I unexpectedly came into some money. I don’t need it.
And it’s such a worthy cause.”
He smiles down at me, and I seize the opportunity for some innocent inquiries. Carpe diem, my
subconscious hisses from behind her hand.
“Christian told me a little about his past, so I think it’s appropriate to support your work,” I add,
hoping that this might encourage Carrick to give me a small insight into the mystery that is his son.
Carrick is surprised. “Did he? That’s unusual. You certainly have had a very positive effect on
him, Anastasia. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him so, so... buoyant.”
I flush.
“Sorry, I didn’t mean to embarrass you.”“Well, in my limited experience, he’s a very unusual man,” I murmur.
“He is,” Carrick agrees quietly.
“Christian’s early childhood sounds hideously traumatic, from what he’s told me.”
Carrick frowns, and I worry if I’ve overstepped the mark.
“My wife was the doctor on duty when the police brought him in. He was skin and bones, and
badly dehydrated. He wouldn’t speak.” Carrick frowns again, lost in the awful memory, despite the
up-tempo music surrounding us. “In fact, he didn’t speak for nearly two years. It was playing the
piano that eventually brought him out of himself. Oh, and Mia’s arrival, of course.” He smiles down at
me fondly.
“He plays beautifully. And he’s accomplished so much, you must be very proud of him.” I sound
distracted. Holy Shit. Didn’t speak for two years.
“Immensely so. He’s a very determined, very capable, very bright young man. But between you
and me, Anastasia, it’s seeing him like he is this evening—carefree, acting his age—that’s the real
thrill for his mother and me. We were both commenting on it today. I believe we have you to thank for
that.”
I think I blush to my roots. What am I supposed to say to this?
“He’s always been such a loner. We never thought we’d see him with anyone. Whatever you’re
doing, please don’t stop. We’d like to see him happy.” He stops suddenly as if he’s overstepped the
mark. “I’m sorry, I don’t mean to make you uncomfortable.”
I shake my head. “I’d like to see him happy, too,” I mutter, unsure of what else to say.
“Well, I’m very glad you came this evening. It’s been a real pleasure seeing the two of you
together.”
As the final strains of “Come Fly with Me” fade away, Carrick releases me and bows, and I
curtsey, mirroring his civility.
“That’s enough dancing with old men.” Christian is at my side again. Carrick laughs.
“Less of the ‘old,’ son. I’ve been known to have my moments.” Carrick winks at me playfully
and saunters into the crowd.
“I think my dad likes you,” Christian mutters as he watches his father mingle with the crowd..
“What’s not to like?” I peek coquettishly up at him through my lashes.
“Good point well made, Miss Steele.” He pulls me into an embrace as the band starts to play “It
Had to Be You.”
“Dance with me,” he whispers seductively.
“With pleasure, Mr. Grey.” I smile in response, and he sweeps me across the dance floor once
more.
At midnight, we stroll down toward the shore between the marquee and the boathouse where the other
partygoers are gathered to watch the fireworks. The MC, back in charge, has permitted the removal of
masks, the better to see the display. Christian has his arm around me, but I’m aware that Taylor and
Sawyer are close by, probably because we’re in the crowd now. They are looking anywhere but at the
dockside where two pyrotechnicians dressed in black are making their final preparations. Seeing
Taylor reminds me of Leila. Perhaps she’s here. Shit. The thought chills my blood, and I huddle closer
to Christian. He gazes down at me as he pulls me closer.
“You okay, baby? Cold?”
“I’m fine.” I glance quickly behind us and see the other two security guys, whose names I forget,standing close by. Moving me in front of him, Christian puts both his arms around me over my
shoulders.
Suddenly, a stirring classical soundtrack booms over the dock and two rockets soar into the air,
exploding with a deafening bang over the bay, lighting it all in a dazzling canopy of sparkling orange
and white that’s reflected in a glittering shower over the still calm water of the bay. My jaw drops as
several more rockets fire into the air and explode in a kaleidoscope of color.
I can’t recall ever seeing a display this impressive, except perhaps on television, and it never
looks this good on TV. They’re all in time to the music. Volley after volley, bang after bang, and light
after light as the crowd answers with gasps and ooohs and ahhs. It is out of this world.
On the pontoon in the bay several silver fountains of light shoot up twenty feet in the air,
changing color through blue, red, orange, and back to silver—and yet more rockets explode as the
music reaches its crescendo.
My face is beginning to ache from the ridiculous grin of wonder plastered across it. I glance at
Fifty, and he’s the same, marveling like a child at the sensational show. For the finale a volley of six
rockets shoot into the dark and explode simultaneously, bathing us in a glorious golden light as the
crowd erupts into frantic, enthusiastic applause.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” the MC calls out as the cheers and whistles fade. “Just one note to add at
the end of this wonderful evening; your generosity has raised a total of one million, eight hundred and
fifty three thousand dollars!”
Spontaneous applause erupts again, and out on the pontoon, a message lights up in silver streams
of sparks forming the words Thank You From Coping Together, sparkling and shimmering over the
water.
“Oh, Christian... that was wonderful.” I grin up at him and he bends down to kiss me.
“Time to go,” he murmurs, a broad smile on his beautiful face, and his words hold so much
promise.
Suddenly, I feel very tired.
He glances up again, and Taylor is close, the crowd dispersing around us. They don’t speak but
something passes between them.
“Stay with me a moment. Taylor wants us to wait while the crowd disperses.”
Oh.
“I think that firework display probably aged him a hundred years,” he adds.
“Doesn’t he like fireworks?”
Christian gazes down at me fondly and shakes his head but doesn’t elaborate.
“So, Aspen,” he says, and I know he’s trying to distract me from something. It works.
“Oh... I haven’t paid for my bid,” I gasp.
“You can send a check. I have the address.”
“You were really mad.”
“Yes, I was.”
I grin. “I blame you and your toys.”
“You were quite overcome, Miss Steele. A most satisfactory outcome if I recall.” He smiles
salaciously. “Incidentally, where are they?”
“The silver balls? In my bag.”
“I’d like them back.” He smirks down at me. “They are far too potent a device to be left in your
innocent hands.”
“Worried I might be quite overcome again, maybe with somebody else?”
His eyes glitter dangerously. “I hope that’s not going to happen,” he says, a cool edge to his
voice. “But no, Ana. I want all your pleasure.”Whoa. “Don’t you trust me?”
“Implicitly. Now, can I have them back?”
“I’ll think about it.”
He narrows his eyes at me.
There’s music once more from the dance floor but it’s a DJ playing a thumping dance number,
the bass pounding out a relentless beat.
“Do you want to dance?”
“I’m really tired, Christian. I’d like to go, if that’s okay.”
Christian glances at Taylor, who nods, and we set off toward the house, following a couple of
drunken guests. I’m grateful when Christian takes my hand—my feet are aching from the dizzying
height and tight confinement of my shoes.
Mia comes bounding up to us. “You’re not going, are you? The real music’s just beginning.
Come on, Ana.” She grabs my hand.
“Mia,” Christian admonishes her. “Anastasia’s tired. We’re going home. Besides, we have a big
day tomorrow.”
We do?
Mia pouts but surprisingly doesn’t push Christian.
“You must come by sometime next week. Maybe we can hit the mall?”
“Sure, Mia.” I grin, though in the back of my mind I’m wondering how since I have to work for a
living.
She gives me a quick kiss then hugs Christian fiercely, taking us both by surprise. More
astoundingly still, she places her hands directly on the lapels of his jacket, and he just gazes down at
her, indulgently.
“I like seeing you this happy,” she says sweetly and kisses him on the cheek. “Bye. You guys
have fun.” She skips off toward her waiting friends—among them Lily, who looks even more sour-
faced without her mask.
I wonder idly where Sean is.
“We’ll say goodnight to my parents before we leave. Come.” Christian leads me through a gaggle
of guests to Grace and Carrick, who wish us fond and warm farewells.
“Please do come again, Anastasia, it’s been lovely having you here,” says Grace kindly.
I am a little overwhelmed by both her and Carrick’s reaction. Fortunately, Grace’s parents have
retired for the evening, so at least I am spared their enthusiasm.
Quietly, Christian and I walk hand in hand to the front of the house where countless cars are lined
up and waiting to collect guests. I glance up at Fifty. He looks happy and relaxed. It’s a real pleasure
to see him this way, though I suspect it’s unusual after such an extraordinary day.
“Are you warm enough?” he asks.
“Yes, thank you.” I clasp my satin wrap.
“I really enjoyed this evening, Anastasia. Thank you.”
“Me too, some parts more than others.” I grin.
He grins and nods, then his brow creases. “Don’t bite your lip,” he warns in a way that makes my
blood sing.
“What did you mean about a big day tomorrow?” I ask to distract myself.
“Dr. Greene is coming to sort you out. Plus, I have a surprise for you.”
“Dr. Greene!” I halt.
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because I hate condoms,” he says quietly. His eyes glint in the soft light from the paperlanterns, gauging my reaction.
“It’s my body,” I mutter, annoyed that he hasn’t asked me.
“It’s mine, too,” he whispers.
I gaze up at him as various guests pass by, ignoring us. He looks so earnest. Yes, my body is his...
he knows it better than I do.
I reach up, and he flinches ever so slightly but stays still. Grasping the corner of his bow tie, I
pull so it unravels, revealing the top button of his shirt. Gently I undo it.
“You look hot like this,” I whisper. Actually he looks hot all the time, but really hot like this.
He smirks at me. “I need to get you home. Come.”
At the car, Sawyer hands Christian an envelope. He frowns at it and glances at me as Taylor
ushers me into the car. Taylor looks relieved for some reason. Christian climbs in and hands me the
envelope, unopened, as Taylor and Sawyer take their seats in the front.
“It’s addressed to you. One of the staff gave it to Sawyer. No doubt from yet another ensnared
heart.” Christian’s mouth twists. It’s obvious this is an unpleasant concept to him.
I stare at the note. Who is this from? Ripping it open, I read it quickly in the dim light. Holy shit,
it’s from her! Why won’t she leave me alone?
Fuck, she’s signed it Mrs. Robinson! He told her. The bastard.
“You told her?”
“Told who, what?”
“That I call her Mrs. Robinson,” I snap.
“It’s from Elena?” Christian is shocked. “This is ridiculous,” he grumbles, running a hand
through his hair, and I can tell he’s irritated. “I’ll deal with her tomorrow. Or Monday,” he mutters
bitterly.
And though I’m ashamed to admit it, a very small part of me is pleased. My subconscious nods
sagely. Elena is pissing him off, and this can only be good—surely. I decide to say nothing for now
but stash her note in my bag, and in a gesture guaranteed to lighten his mood, I hand him back the
balls.
“Until next time,” I murmur.
He glances at me, and it’s hard to see his face in the dark, but I think he’s smirking. He reaches
for my hand and squeezes it.
I gaze out of the window into the darkness, reflecting on this long day. I’ve learned so much
about him, gleaned so many missing details—the salons, the road map, his childhood—but there’s
still so much more to discover. And what about Mrs. R? Yes, she cares for him, and deeply, it would
appear. I can see that, and he cares for her—but not in the same way. I don’t know what to think
anymore. All this information is making my head hurt.Christian wakes me just as we pull up outside Escala. “Do I need to carry you in?” he asks gently.
I shake my head sleepily. No way.
As we stand in the elevator, I lean against him, putting my head against his shoulder. Sawyer
stands in front of us, shifting uncomfortably.
“It’s been a long day, eh, Anastasia?”
I nod.
“Tired?”
I nod.
“You’re not very talkative.”
I nod and he grins.
“Come. I’ll put you to bed.” He takes my hand as we exit the elevator, but we stop in the foyer
when Sawyer holds up his hand. In that split second, I am instantly wide awake. Sawyer talks into his
sleeve. I had no idea that he was wearing a radio.
“Will do, T,” he says and turns to face us. “Mr. Grey, the tires on Ms. Steele’s Audi have been
slashed and paint thrown all over it.”
Holy shit. My car! Who would do that? And I know the answer as soon as the question
materializes in my mind. Leila. I glance up at Christian, and he blanches.
“Taylor is concerned that the perp may have entered the apartment and may still be there. He
wants to make sure.”
“I see,” Christian whispers. “What’s Taylor’s plan?”
“He’s coming up in the service elevator with Ryan and Reynolds. They’ll do a sweep then give us
the all clear. I’m to wait with you, sir.”
“Thank you, Sawyer.” Christian tightens his arm around me. “This day just gets better and
better,” he sighs bitterly, nuzzling my hair. “Listen, I can’t stand here and wait. Sawyer, take care of
Miss Steele. Don’t let her in until you have the all clear. I am sure Taylor is overreacting. She can’t
get into the apartment.”
What? “No, Christian—you have to stay with me,” I plead.
Christian releases me. “Do as you’re told, Anastasia. Wait here.”
No!
“Sawyer?” Christian says.
Sawyer opens the foyer door to let Christian enter the apartment then shuts the door behind him
and stands in front of it, staring impassively down at me.
Holy shit. Christian! All manner of horrific outcomes run through my mind, but all I can do is
stand and wait.Sawyer talks into his sleeve again.
“Taylor, Mr. Grey has entered the apartment.” He flinches and grabs the earpiece, pulling it out
of his ear, presumably receiving some powerful invective from Taylor.
Oh no—if Taylor is worried...
“Please let me go in,” I plead.
“Sorry, Miss Steele. This won’t take long.” Sawyer holds both hands up in a defensive gesture.
“Taylor and the guys are just coming into the apartment now.”
Oh. I feel so impotent. Standing stock-still, I listen avidly for the slightest sound, but all I hear is
my aggravated breathing. It’s loud and shallow, my scalp prickles, my mouth is dry, and I feel faint.
Please, let Christian be okay, I pray silently.
I have no idea how much time passes, and still we hear nothing. Surely no sound is good—there
are no gunshots. I begin pacing around the table in the foyer and examine the paintings on the walls to
distract myself.
I’ve never really looked at them before: all figurative paintings, all religious—the Madonna and
child, all sixteen of them. How odd?
Christian isn’t religious, is he? All of the paintings in the great room are abstracts—these are so
different. They don’t distract me for long—Where is Christian?
I stare at Sawyer and he watches me impassively.
“What’s happening?”
“No news, Miss Steele.”
Abruptly, the doorknob moves. Sawyer spins like a top and draws a gun from his shoulder
holster.
I freeze. Christian appears at the door.
“All clear,” he says, frowning at Sawyer, who puts his gun away immediately and steps back to
let me in.
“Taylor is overreacting,” Christian grumbles as he holds out his hand to me. I stand gaping at
him, unable to move, drinking in every little detail: his unruly hair, the tightness round his eyes, the
tense jaw, the top two buttons of his shirt undone. I think I must have aged ten years. Christian frowns
at me in concern, his eyes dark.“It’s alright, baby.” He moves toward me, enveloping me in his arms, and kisses my hair. “Come
on, you’re tired. Bed.”
“I was so worried,” I murmur, rejoicing in his embrace and inhaling his sweet, sweet scent with
my head against his chest.
“I know. We’re all jumpy.”
Sawyer has disappeared, presumably into the apartment.
“Honestly, your exes are proving to be very challenging, Mr. Grey,” I mutter wryly. Christian
relaxes.
“Yes. They are.”
He releases me and taking my hand, leads me across the hallway and into the great room.
“Taylor and his crew are checking all the closets and cupboards. I don’t think she’s here.”
“Why would she be here?” It makes no sense.
“Exactly.”
“Could she get in?”
“I don’t see how. But Taylor is overcautious sometimes.”
“Have you searched your playroom?” I whisper.
Christian glances quickly at me, his brow creasing. “Yes, it’s locked—but Taylor and I checked.”
I take a deep, cleansing breath.
“Do you want a drink or anything?” Christian asks.
“No.” Fatigue sweeps through me—I just want to go to bed.
“Come. Let me put you to bed. You look exhausted.” Christian’s expression softens.
I frown. Isn’t he coming, too? Does he want to sleep alone?
I’m relieved when he leads me into his bedroom. I place my clutch bag on the chest of drawers
and open it to empty the contents. I spy Mrs. Robinson’s note.
“Here.” I pass it to Christian. “I don’t know if you want to read this. I want to ignore it.”
Christian scans it briefly and his jaw tenses.
“I’m not sure what blanks she can fill in,” he says dismissively. “I need to talk to Taylor.” He
gazes down at me. “Let me unzip your dress.”
“Are you going to call the police about the car?” I ask as I turn around.
He sweeps my hair out of the way, his fingers softly grazing my naked back, and tugs down my
zipper.
“No. I don’t want the police involved. Leila needs help, not police intervention, and I don’t want
them here. We just have to double our efforts to find her.” He leans down and plants a gentle kiss on
my shoulder.
“Go to bed,” he orders and then he’s gone.
I lie, staring at the ceiling, waiting for him to return. So much has happened today, so much to
process. Where to start?
I wake with a jolt—disorientated. Have I been asleep? Blinking in the dim glow the hallway casts
through the slightly open bedroom door, I notice that Christian is not with me. Where is he? I glance
up. Standing at the end of the bed is a shadow. A woman, maybe? Dressed in black? It’s difficult to
tell.
In my befuddled state, I reach across and switch on the bedside light, then turn back to look but
there’s no one there. I shake my head. Did I imagine it? Dream it?I sit up and look around the room, a vague, insidious unease gripping me—but I am quite alone.
I rub my face. What time is it? Where’s Christian? The alarm says it’s two fifteen in the
morning.
Climbing groggily out of bed, I set off to hunt him down, disconcerted by my overactive
imagination. I am seeing things now. It must be a reaction to the dramatic events of the evening.
The main room is empty, the only light emanating from the three pendulum lamps above the
breakfast bar. But his study door is ajar, and I hear him on the phone.
“I don’t know why you’re calling at this hour. I have nothing to say to you... well, you can tell me
now. You don’t have to leave a message.”
I stand motionless by the door, eavesdropping guiltily. Who is he talking to?
“No, you listen. I asked you, and now I am telling you. Leave her alone. She’s nothing to do with
you. Do you understand?”
He sounds belligerent and angry. I hesitate to knock.
“I know you do. But I mean it, Elena. Leave her the fuck alone. Do I need to put it in triplicate for
you? Are you hearing me?... Good. Good night.” He slams the phone down on the desk.
Oh shit. I knock tentatively on the door.
“What?” he snarls, and I almost want to run and hide.
He sits at his desk with his head in his hands. He glances up, his expression ferocious, but his
face softens immediately when he sees me. His eyes are wide and cautious. Suddenly, he looks so tired
and my heart constricts.
He blinks, and his eyes sweep down my legs and back again. I am wearing one of his T-shirts.
“You should be in satin or silk, Anastasia,” he breathes. “But even in my T-shirt you look
beautiful.”
Oh, an unexpected compliment. “I missed you. Come to bed.”
He rises slowly out of the chair still in his white shirt and black dress pants. But now his eyes are
shining and full of promise... but there’s a trace of sadness, too. He stands in front of me, staring
intently but not touching me.
“Do you know what you mean to me?” he murmurs. “If something happened to you, because of
me...” His voice trails off, his brow creasing, and the pain that flashes across his face is almost
palpable. He looks so vulnerable—his fear very much apparent.
“Nothing’s going to happen to me,” I reassure him, my voice soothing. I reach up and stroke his
face, running my fingers through the stubble on his cheek. It’s unexpectedly soft. “Your beard grows
quickly,” I whisper, unable to hide the wonder in my voice at this beautiful, fucked-up man who
stands before me.
I trace the line of his bottom lip then trail my fingers down his throat, to the faint smudge of
lipstick at the base of his neck. He gazes down at me, still not touching me, his lips parted. I run my
index finger along the line, and he closes his eyes. His soft breathing quickens. My fingers reach the
edge of his shirt, and I run them down to the next fastened button.
“I’m not going to touch you. I just want to undo your shirt,” I whisper.
His eyes open wide, regarding me with alarm. But he doesn’t move, and he doesn’t stop me. Very
slowly I unfasten the button, holding the material away from his skin, and move tentatively down to
the next button, repeating the process—slowly, concentrating on what I am doing.
I don’t want to touch him. Well, I do... but I won’t. On the fourth button, the red line reappears,
and I smile shyly up at him.
“Back on home territory.” I trace the line with my fingers before undoing the final button. I pull
his shirt open and move to his cuffs, removing his black polished stone cufflinks one at a time.
“Can I take your shirt off?” I ask, my voice low.He nods, eyes still wide, as I reach up and pull his shirt over his shoulders. He frees his hands so
he’s standing in front of me naked from the waist up. With his shirt off, he seems to recover his
equilibrium. He smirks down at me.
“What about my pants, Miss Steele?” he asks, raising an eyebrow.
“In the bedroom. I want you in your bed.”
“Do you now? Miss Steele, you are insatiable.”
“I can’t think why.” I grab his hand, pull him from his study, and lead him to his bedroom. The
room is chilly.
“You opened the balcony door?” he asks, frowning down at me as we arrive in his room.
“No.” I don’t remember doing that. I recall scanning the room when I woke. The door was
definitely closed.
Oh shit... All the blood rushes from my face, and I stare at Christian as my mouth falls open.
“What?” he snaps, glaring at me.
“When I woke... there was someone in here,” I whisper. “I thought it was my imagination.”
“What?” He looks horrified and dashes to the balcony door, peers out, then steps back into the
room and locks the door behind him. “Are you sure? Who?” he asks his voice tight.
“A woman, I think. It was dark. I’d only just woken up.”
“Get dressed,” he snarls at me on his way back in. “Now!”
“My clothes are upstairs,” I whimper.
He pulls open one of the drawers in his chest of drawers and fishes out a pair of sweatpants.
“Put these on.” They are far too big, but he is not to be argued with.
He swipes a T-shirt, too, and quickly pulls it over his head. Grabbing the bedside phone, he
presses two buttons.
“She’s still fucking here,” he hisses down the phone.
Approximately three seconds later, Taylor and one of the other security guys, burst into
Christian’s bedroom. Christian gives them a précis of what has happened.
“How long ago?” Taylor demands, staring at me all businesslike. He’s still wearing his jacket.
Does this man ever sleep?
“About ten minutes,” I mutter, for some reason feeling guilty.
“She knows the apartment like the back of her hand,” says Christian. “I am taking Anastasia away
now. She’s hiding here somewhere. Find her. When is Gail back?
“Tomorrow evening, sir.”
“She’s not to return until this place is secure. Understand?” Christian snaps.
“Yes, sir. Will you be going to Bellevue?”
“I’m not leading this problem to my parents. Book me somewhere.”
“Yes. I’ll call you.”
“Aren’t we all overreacting slightly?” I ask.
Christian glowers at me. “She may have a gun,” he growls.
“Christian, she was standing at the end of the bed. She could have shot me then, if that’s what she
wanted to do.”
Christian pauses for a moment to rein in his temper, I think. In a menacingly soft voice he says,
“I’m not prepared to take the risk. Taylor, Anastasia needs shoes.”
Christian disappears into his closet while the security guy watches me. I can’t remember his
name, Ryan maybe. He looks alternately down the hall and to the balcony windows. Christian emerges
a couple of minutes later with a leather messenger bag, wearing jeans and his pinstriped blazer. He
drapes a denim jacket around my shoulders.“Come.” He clasps my hand tightly, and I have to practically run to keep up with his long strides
into the great room.
“I can’t believe she could hide somewhere in here,” I mutter, staring out the balcony doors.
“It’s a big place. You haven’t seen it all yet.”
“Why don’t you just call her... tell her you want to talk to her?”
“Anastasia, she’s unstable, and she may be armed,” he says irritably.
“So we just run?”
“For now—yes.”
“Supposing she tries to shoot Taylor?”
“Taylor knows and understands guns,” he says with distaste. “He’ll be quicker with a gun than
she is.”
“Ray was in the army. He’s taught me to shoot.”
Christian raises his eyebrows and for a moment looks utterly bemused. “You, with a gun?” he
says incredulously.
“Yes.” I am affronted. “I can shoot, Mr. Grey, so you’d better beware. It’s not just crazy ex-subs
you need to worry about.”
“I’ll bear that in mind, Miss Steele,” he answers dryly, amused, and it feels good to know that
even in this ridiculously tense situation, I can make him smile.
Taylor meets us in the foyer and hands me my small suitcase and my black Converse. I am
stunned that he’s packed me some clothes. I smile shyly at him with gratitude, and his returning smile
is swift and reassuring. Before I can stop myself—I hug him, hard. He’s taken by surprise, and when I
release him, he’s pink in both cheeks.
“Be careful,” I murmur.
“Yes, Miss Steele,” he mutters.
Christian frowns at me and then looks questioningly at Taylor, who smiles very slightly and
adjusts his tie.
“Let me know where I’m going.” Christian says.
Taylor reaches into his jacket, pulls out his wallet, and hands Christian a credit card.
“You might want to use this when you get there.”
Christian nods. “Good thinking.”
Ryan joins us. “Sawyer and Reynolds found nothing,” he says to Taylor.
“Accompany Mr. Grey and Miss Steele to the garage,” Taylor orders.
The garage is deserted. Well, it is nearly three in the morning. Christian ushers me into the
passenger seat of the R8 and puts my case and his bag in the trunk at the front of the car. The Audi
beside us is a complete mess—every tire slashed, white paint splattered all over it. It’s chilling and
makes me grateful that Christian is taking me somewhere else.
“A replacement will arrive on Monday,” Christian says bleakly when he’s seated beside me.
“How could she have known it was my car?”
He glances anxiously at me and sighs. “She had an Audi A3. I buy one for all my submissives—
it’s one of the safest cars in its class.”
Oh. “So, not so much a graduation present, then.”
“Anastasia, despite what I hoped, you have never been my submissive, so technically it is a
graduation present.” He pulls out of the parking space and speeds to the exit.
Despite what he hoped. Oh no... my subconscious shakes her head sadly. This is what we come
back to all the time.
“Are you still hoping?” I whisper.
The in-car phone buzzes. “Grey,” Christian snaps.“Fairmont Olympic. In my name.”
“Thank you, Taylor. And, Taylor, be careful.”
Taylor pauses. “Yes, sir,” he says quietly, and Christian hangs up.
The streets of Seattle are deserted, and Christian roars up Fifth Avenue toward the I-5. Once on
the interstate, he floors the gas pedal, heading north. He accelerates so quickly I’m momentarily
thrown back in my seat.
I peek at him. He’s deep in thought, radiating a deadly brooding silence. He hasn’t answered my
question. He glances frequently at the rearview mirror, and I realize he’s checking that we’re not
being followed. Perhaps that’s why we’re on the I-5. I thought the Fairmont was in Seattle.
I gaze out of the window, trying to rationalize my exhausted, overactive mind. If she’d wanted to
hurt me, she had ample opportunity in the bedroom.
“No. It’s not what I hope for, not anymore. I thought that was obvious.” Christian interrupts my
introspection, his voice soft.
I blink at him, pulling his denim jacket tighter around me, and I don’t know if the chill is
emanating from within me or from outside.
“I worry that, you know... that I’m not enough.”
“You’re more than enough. For the love of God, Anastasia, what do I have to do?”
Tell me about yourself. Tell me you love me.
“Why did you think I’d leave when I told you Dr. Flynn had told me all there was to know about
you?”
He sighs heavily, closing his eyes for a moment, and for the longest time he doesn’t answer.
“You cannot begin to understand the depths of my depravity, Anastasia. And it’s not something I want
to share with you.”
“And you really think I’d leave, if I knew?” My voice is high, incredulous. Doesn’t he understand
that I love him? “Do you think so little of me?”
“I know you’ll leave,” he says sadly.
“Christian... I think that’s very unlikely. I can’t imagine being without you.” Ever...
“You left me once—I don’t want to go there again.”
“Elena said she saw you last Saturday,” I whisper quietly.
“She didn’t.” He frowns.
“You didn’t go to see her, when I left?”
“No,” he snaps, irritated. “I just told you I didn’t—and I don’t like to be doubted,” he scolds. “I
didn’t go anywhere last weekend. I sat and made the glider you gave me. Took me forever,” he adds
quietly.
My heart clenches again. Mrs. Robinson said she saw him.
Did she or didn’t she? She’s lying. Why?
“Contrary to what Elena thinks, I don’t rush to her with all my problems, Anastasia. I don’t rush
to anybody. You may have noticed—I’m not much of a talker.” He tightens his hold on the steering
wheel.
“Carrick told me you didn’t talk for two years.”
“Did he now?” Christian’s mouth presses into a hard line.
“I kind of pumped him for information.” Embarrassed, I stare at my fingers.
“So what else did Daddy say?”
“He said your mom was the doctor who examined you when you were brought into the hospital.
After you were discovered in your apartment.”
Christian’s expression remains blank... careful.
“He said learning the piano helped. And Mia.”His lips curl in a fond smile at the mention of her name. After a moment he says, “She was about
six months old when she arrived. I was thrilled, Elliot less so. He’d already had to contend with my
arrival. She was perfect.” The sweet, sad awe in his voice is affecting. “Less so now, of course,” he
mutters, and I recall her successful attempts at the ball to thwart our lascivious intentions. It makes
me giggle.
Christian gives me a sideways glance. “You find that amusing, Miss Steele?”
“She seemed determined to keep us apart.”
He laughs mirthlessly. “Yes, she’s quite accomplished.” He reaches across and squeezes my
knee. “But we got there in the end.” He smiles then glances in the rearview mirror once more. “I don’t
think we’ve been followed.” He turns off the I-5 and heads back to central Seattle.
“Can I ask you something about Elena?” We are stopped at some traffic lights.
He gazes at me warily. “If you must,” he mutters sullenly, but I don’t let his irritability deter me.
“You told me ages ago that she loved you in a way you found acceptable. What did that mean?”
“Isn’t it obvious?” he asks.
“Not to me.”
“I was out of control. I couldn’t bear to be touched. I can’t bear it now. For a fourteen, fifteen-
year-old adolescent boy with hormones raging, it was a difficult time. She showed me a way to let off
steam.”
Oh. “Mia said you were a brawler.”
“Christ, what is it with my loquacious family? Actually—it’s you.” We’ve stopped at more
lights, and he narrows his eyes at me. “You inveigle information out of people.” He shakes his head in
mock disgust.
“Mia volunteered that information. In fact, she was very forthcoming. She was worried you’d
start a brawl in the marquee if you didn’t win me at the auction,” I mutter indignantly.
“Oh, baby, there was no danger of that. There was no way I would let anyone else dance with
you.”
“You let Dr. Flynn.”
“He’s always the exception to the rule.”
Christian pulls into the impressive, leafy driveway of the Fairmont Olympic Hotel and parks near
the front door, beside a quaint stone fountain.
“Come.” He climbs out of the car and retrieves our luggage. A valet rushes toward us, looking
surprised—no doubt at our late arrival. Christian tosses him the car keys.
“Name of Taylor,” he says. The valet nods and can’t contain his glee as he leaps into the R8 and
drives off. Christian takes my hand and strides into the lobby.
As I stand beside him at the reception desk, I feel utterly, utterly ridiculous. Here I am, in
Seattle’s most prestigious hotel, dressed in an oversized denim jacket, oversized sweatpants, and an
old T-shirt next to this elegant, beautiful, Greek god. No wonder the receptionist is looking from one
to the other as if the equation doesn’t add up. Of course, she’s over-awed by Christian. I roll my eyes
as she flushes crimson and stutters. Jeez, even her hands are shaking.
“Do... you need a hand... with your bags, Mr. Taylor?” she asks, going scarlet again.
“No, Mrs. Taylor and I can manage.”
Mrs. Taylor! But I’m not wearing a ring. I put my hands behind my back.
“You’re in the Cascade Suite, Mr. Taylor, eleventh floor. Our bellboy will help with your bags.”
“We’re fine,” Christian says curtly. “Where are the elevators?”
Miss Flushing Crimson explains, and Christian grasps my hand once more. I glance briefly round
the impressive, sumptuous lobby full of overstuffed chairs, deserted save for a dark-haired womansitting on a cozy sofa, feeding tidbits to her westie. She glances up and smiles at us as we make our
way to the elevators. So the hotel allows pets? Odd for a place so grand!
The suite has two bedrooms, a formal dining room, and comes complete with grand piano. A log
fire blazes in the massive main room. Jeez... This suite is bigger than my apartment.
“Well, Mrs. Taylor, I don’t know about you, but I’d really like a drink,” Christian mutters,
locking the front door securely.
In the bedroom, he puts my case and his satchel on the ottoman at the foot of the king-size four-
poster bed and leads me by the hand into the main room where the fire is burning brightly. It’s a
welcome sight. I stand and warm my hands while Christian fixes us both a drink.
“Armagnac?”
“Please.”
After a moment, he joins me by the fire and hands me a crystal brandy glass.
“It’s been quite a day, huh?”
I nod and his gray eyes gaze at me searchingly, concerned.
“I’m okay,” I whisper reassuringly. “How about you?”
“Well, right now I’d like to drink this and then, if you’re not too tired, take you to bed and lose
myself in you.”
“I think that can be arranged, Mr. Taylor.” I smile shyly at him as he shuffles out of his shoes and
peels off his socks.
“Mrs. Taylor, stop biting your lip,” he whispers.
I blush into my glass. The Armagnac is delicious, leaving a burning warmth in its wake as it
glides silkily down my throat. When I glance up at Christian, he’s sipping his brandy, watching me,
his eyes dark—hungry.
“You never cease to amaze me, Anastasia. After a day like today—or yesterday, rather—you’re
not whining or running off into the hills screaming. I am in awe of you. You’re very strong.”
“You’re a very good reason to stay,” I murmur. “I told you, Christian, I’m not going anywhere,
no matter what you’ve done. You know how I feel about you.”
His mouth twists as if he doubts my words, and his brow creases as if what I’m saying is painful
for him to hear. Oh, Christian, what do I have to do to make you realize how I feel?
Let him beat you, my subconscious sneers at me. I scowl inwardly at her.
“Where are you going to hang José’s portraits of me?” I try to lighten the mood.
“That depends.” His lips twitch. This is obviously a much more palatable topic of conversation
for him.
“On what?”
“Circumstances,” he says mysteriously. “His show’s not over yet, so I don’t have to decide
straight away.”
I cock my head to one side and narrow my eyes.
“You can look as sternly as you like, Mrs. Taylor. I’m saying nothing,” he teases.
“I may torture the truth from you.”
He raises an eyebrow. “Really, Anastasia, I don’t think you should make promises you can’t
fulfill.”
Oh my, is that what he thinks? I place my glass on the mantelpiece, reach over, and much to
Christian’s surprise, take his glass and place it beside mine.
“We’ll just have to see about that,” I murmur. Very bravely—emboldened by the brandy, no
doubt—I take Christian’s hand and pull him toward the bedroom. At the foot of the bed I stop.
Christian is trying to hide his amusement.
“Now you have me in here, Anastasia, what are you going to do with me?” he teases, his voicelow.
“I’m going to start by undressing you. I want to finish what I started earlier.” I reach for the
lapels on his jacket, careful not to touch him, and he doesn’t flinch but he’s holding his breath.
Gently, I push his jacket over his shoulders, and his eyes stay on mine, all traces of humor gone,
as they grow larger, burning into me, wary and needful? There are so many interpretations of his look.
What is he thinking? I place his jacket on the ottoman.
“Now your T-shirt,” I whisper and lift it by the hem. He cooperates, raising his arms and backing
away, making it easier for me to pull it off. Once off, he gazes down at me, intently, wearing just his
jeans that hang so provocatively from his hips. The band of his boxer briefs is visible.
My eyes move hungrily up across his taut stomach to the remains of the lipstick line, faded and
smudged, then up to his chest. I want nothing more than to run my tongue through his chest hair to
savor his taste.
“Now what?” he whispers, eyes blazing.
“I want to kiss you here.” I run my finger from hipbone to hipbone across his belly.
His lips part as he inhales sharply. “I’m not stopping you,” he breathes.
I take his hand. “You’d better lie down then,” I murmur and lead him to the side of the four-
poster bed. He seems bewildered, and it occurs to me that perhaps no one has taken the lead with him
since... her. No, don’t go there.
Lifting the covers, he sits on the edge of the bed, gazing up at me, waiting, his expression wary
and serious. I stand before him and slip off his denim jacket and let it drop to the floor, then I shuffle
out of his sweatpants.
He rubs his thumb over the tips of his fingers. He’s itching to touch me, I can tell, but he
suppresses the urge. Taking a deep breath and beyond courageous, I reach for the hem of my T-shirt
and lift it over my head so I am naked before him. His eyes don’t leave mine, but he swallows and his
lips part.
“You are Aphrodite, Anastasia,” he murmurs.
I clasp his face in my hands, tip his head up, and bend to kiss him. He groans low in his throat.
As I place my mouth on his, he grabs my hips, and before I know it, I am pinned beneath him, his
legs forcing mine apart so that he’s cradled against my body between my legs. He’s kissing me,
ravaging my mouth, our tongues entwined. His hand trails from my thigh, over my hip, along my belly
to my breast, squeezing, kneading, and pulling enticingly on my nipple.
I groan and tilt my pelvis involuntarily against him, finding a delicious friction against the seam
of his fly and his growing erection. He stops kissing me and gazes down at me bemused and
breathless. He flexes his hips so his erection pushes against me. ...Yes. Right there.
I close my eyes and moan, and he does it again, but this time I push back, relishing his answering
moan as he kisses me again. He continues the slow delicious torture—rubbing me, rubbing him. And
he’s right—getting lost in him—it’s intoxicating to the exclusion of everything else. All my worries
are obliterated.
I am here in this moment with him—my blood singing in my veins, thrumming loudly through
my ears, mixed with the sound of our panting breaths. I bury my hands in his hair, holding him to my
mouth, consuming him, my tongue as avaricious as his. I trail my fingers down his arms, down his
lower back to the waistband of his jeans and push my intrepid, greedy hands inside, urging him on and
on—forgetting everything, except us.
“You’re going to unman me, Ana,” he whispers suddenly, breaking away from me and kneeling
up. He briskly pulls down his jeans and hands me a foil packet.
“You want me, baby, and I sure as hell want you. You know what to do.”With anxious, dexterous fingers, I rip open the foil and unroll the condom over him. He grins
down at me, his mouth open, eyes misty gray and full of carnal promise. Leaning over me, he rubs his
nose against mine, his eyes closed, and deliciously, slowly, he enters me.
I grasp his arms and tilt my chin up, reveling in the exquisitely full feeling of his possession. He
runs his teeth along my chin, eases back, and then slides into me again—so slow, so sweet, so tender
—his body pressing down on me, his elbows and his hands on either side of my face.
“You make me forget everything. You are the best therapy,” he breathes, moving at an achingly
leisurely pace, savoring every inch of me.
“Please, Christian—faster,” I murmur, wanting more, now.
“Oh no, baby. I need this slow.” He kisses me sweetly, gently biting my lower lip and absorbing
my soft moans.
I move my hands into his hair and surrender myself to his rhythm as slowly and surely my body
climbs higher and higher and plateaus, then falls hard and fast as I come around him.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes as he lets go, my name a benediction on his lips as he finds his release.
His head rests on my belly, his arms wrapped around me. My fingers forage in his unruly hair, and we
lie like this for I don’t know how long. It’s so late and I am so tired, but I just want to enjoy the quiet
serene after-glow of making love with Christian Grey, because that’s what we’ve done, gentle, sweet
lovemaking.
He’s come a long way, as have I, in such a short time. It’s almost too much to absorb. With all
the fucked-up stuff, I am losing sight of his simple, honest journey with me.
“I will never get enough of you. Don’t leave me,” he murmurs and kisses my belly.
“I’m not going anywhere, Christian, and I seem to remember that I wanted to kiss your belly,” I
grumble sleepily.
He grins against my skin. “Nothing stopping you now baby.”
“I don’t think I can move I’m so tired.”
Christian sighs and shifts reluctantly, coming to lie beside me with his head on his elbow and
dragging the covers over us. He gazes down at me, his eyes glowing, warm, loving.
“Sleep now, baby.” He kisses my hair and wraps his arm around me and I drift.
When I open my eyes, light is filling the room, making me blink. My head is fuzzy from lack of sleep.
Where am I? Oh—the hotel...
“Hi,” Christian murmurs, smiling fondly at me. He’s lying beside me, fully dressed, on top of the
bed. How long has he been here? Has he been studying me? Suddenly, I feel incredibly shy as my face
heats under his steady gaze.
“Hi,” I murmur, grateful that I am lying on my front. “How long have you been watching me?”
“I could watch you sleep for hours, Anastasia. But I’ve only been here about five minutes.” He
leans over and kisses me gently. “Dr. Greene will be here shortly.”
“Oh.” I’d forgotten about Christian’s inappropriate intervention.
“Did you sleep well?” he inquires mildly. “Certainly seemed like it to me, with all that snoring.”
Oh, playful teasing Fifty.
“I do not snore!” I pout petulantly.“No. You don’t.” He grins at me. The faint line of red lipstick is still visible around his neck.
“Did you shower?”
“No. Waiting for you.”
“Oh... okay.”
“What time is it?”
“Ten fifteen. I didn’t have the heart to wake you earlier.”
“You told me you didn’t have a heart at all.”
He smiles, sadly but doesn’t answer. “Breakfast is here—pancakes and bacon for you. Come, get
up, I’m getting lonely out here.” He swats me sharply on my behind, making me jump, and rises from
the bed.
Hmm... Christian’s version of warm affection.
As I stretch, I’m aware I ache all over... no doubt a result of all the sex, dancing, and teetering in
expensive high-heeled shoes. I stagger out of bed and make my way into the sumptuously appointed
bathroom while going over the events of the previous day in my mind. When I come out, I don one of
the over-fluffy bathrobes that hang on a brass peg in the bathroom.
Leila—the girl who looks like me—that’s the most startling image my brain conjures for
conjecture, that and her eerie presence in Christian’s bedroom. What did she want? Me? Christian? To
do what? And why the fuck has she wrecked my car?
Christian said I would have another Audi, like all his submissives. The thought is unwelcome.
Since I was so generous with the money he gave me, there’s not a lot I can do.
I wander into the main room of the suite—no sign of Christian. I finally locate him in the dining
room. I take a seat, grateful for the impressive breakfast laid before me. Christian is reading the
Sunday papers and drinking coffee, his breakfast finished. He smiles at me.
“Eat up. You’re going to need your strength today,” he teases.
“And why is that? You going to lock me in the bedroom?” My inner goddess jerks awake
suddenly, all disheveled with a just-fucked look.
“Appealing as that idea is, I thought we’d go out today. Get some fresh air.”
“Is it safe?” I ask innocently, trying and failing to keep the irony from my voice.
Christian’s face falls, and his mouth presses in a line. “Where we’re going, it is. And it’s not a
joking matter,” he adds sternly, narrowing his eyes.
I flush and stare down at my breakfast. I don’t feel like being scolded after all the drama and such
a late night. I eat my breakfast in silence, feeling petulant.
My subconscious is shaking her head at me. Fifty doesn’t joke about my safety—I should know
this by now. I want to roll my eyes at him, but I refrain.
Okay, I’m tired and testy. I had a long day yesterday and not enough sleep. Why, oh why does he
get to look as fresh as a daisy? Life is not fair.
There’s a knock at the door.
“That’ll be the good doctor,” Christian grumbles, obviously still smarting from my irony. He
stalks from the table.
Can’t we just have a calm, normal morning? I sigh heavily, leaving half my breakfast, and get up
to greet Doctor Depo-Provera.
We’re in the bedroom, and Dr. Greene is staring at me open-mouthed. She’s dressed more casually
than last time in a pale pink cashmere twin set and black pants, and her fine blond hair is loose.“And you just stopped taking it? Just like that?”
I flush, feeling beyond foolish.
“Yes.” Could my voice be any smaller?
“You could be pregnant,” she says matter-of-factly.
What! The world falls away at my feet. My subconscious collapses on the floor retching, and I
think I’m going to be sick, too. No!
“Here, go pee in this.” She’s all business today—taking no prisoners.
Meekly, I accept the small plastic container she’s offered and wander in a daze into the
bathroom. No. No. No. No way... No way... Please no. No.
What will Fifty do? I go pale. He’ll freak.
No, please! I whisper a silent prayer.
I hand Dr. Greene my sample, and she carefully places a small white stick in it.
“When did your period start?”
How am I supposed to think about such minutiae when all I can do is stare anxiously at the white
stick?
“Er... Wednesday? Not the one just gone, the one before that. June first.”
“And when did you stop taking the pill?”
“Sunday. Last Sunday.”
She purses her lips.
“You should be okay,” she says sharply. “I can tell by your expression that an unplanned
pregnancy would not be welcome news. So Medroxyprogesterone is a good idea if you can’t
remember to take the pill every day.” She gives me a stern look, and I quail under her authoritative
glare. Picking up the white stick, she peers at it.
“You’re in the clear. You’ve not ovulated yet, so provided you’ve been taking proper precautions,
you shouldn’t be pregnant. Now, let me counsel you about this shot. We discounted it last time
because of the side effects, but quite frankly, the side effects of a child are far-reaching and go on for
years.” She smiles, pleased with herself and her little joke, but I can’t begin to respond—I’m too
stunned.
Dr. Greene launches into full disclosure mode about side effects, and I sit paralyzed with relief,
not listening to a word. I think I’d tolerate any number of strange women standing at the end of my
bed rather than confess to Christian that I might be pregnant.
“Ana!” Dr. Greene snaps. “Let’s do this thing.” She pulls me out of my reverie, and I willingly
roll up my sleeve.
Christian closes the door behind her and gazes at me warily. “Everything okay?” he asks.
I nod mutely, and he tilts his head to one side, his face tense with concern.
“Anastasia, what is it? What did Dr. Greene say?”
I shake my head. “You’re good to go in seven days,” I mutter.
“Seven days?”
“Yes.”
“Ana, what’s wrong?”
I swallow. “It’s nothing to worry about. Please, Christian, just leave it.”
Christian looms in front of me. He grasps my chin, tipping my head back, and stares emphatically
into my eyes, trying to decipher my panic.“Tell me,” he snaps insistently.
“There’s nothing to tell. I’d like to get dressed.” I pull my chin out of his reach.
He sighs and runs a hand through his hair, frowning at me. “Let’s shower,” he says eventually.
“Of course,” I mutter, distracted, and his mouth twists.
“Come,” he says sulkily, clasping my hand firmly. He stalks toward the bathroom as I trail
behind him. I am not the only one in a bad mood, it seems. Firing up the shower, Christian quickly
strips before turning to me.
“I don’t know what’s upset you, or if you’re just bad-tempered through lack of sleep,” he says
while unfastening my robe. “But I want you to tell me. My imagination is running away with me, and I
don’t like it.”
I roll my eyes at him, and he glares back at me, narrowing his eyes. Shit! Okay... here goes.
“Dr. Greene scolded me about missing the pill. She said I could be pregnant.”
“What?” He pales, and his hands freeze as he gazes at me, suddenly ashen.
“But I’m not. She did a test. It was a shock, that’s all. I can’t believe I was that stupid.”
He visibly relaxes. “You’re sure you’re not?”
“Yes.”
He blows out a deep breath. “Good. Yes, I can see that news like that would be very upsetting.”
I frown. ...upsetting? “I was more worried about your reaction.”
He furrows his brow at me, puzzled. “My reaction? Well, naturally I’m relieved... it would be the
height of carelessness and bad manners to knock you up.”
“Then maybe we should abstain,” I snap.
He gazes at me for a moment, bewildered, as if I’m some kind of science experiment. “You are in
a bad temper this morning.”
“It was just a shock, that’s all,” I repeat petulantly.
Clasping the lapels of my robe, he pulls me into a warm embrace, kisses my hair, and presses my
head against his chest. I’m distracted by his chest hair as it tickles my cheek. Oh, if I could just nuzzle
him!
“Ana, I’m not used to this,” he murmurs. “My natural inclination is to beat it out of you, but I
seriously doubt you want that.”
Holy shit. “No, I don’t. This helps.” I hug Christian tighter, and we stand for an age in a strange
embrace, Christian naked and me wrapped in a robe. I am once again floored by his honesty. He knows
nothing about relationships, and neither do I, except what I’ve learned from him. Well, he’s asked for
faith and patience; maybe I should do the same.
“Come, let’s shower,” Christian says eventually, releasing me.
Stepping back, he peels me out of my robe, and I follow him into the cascading water, holding
my face up to the torrent. There’s room for both of us under the gargantuan showerhead. Christian
reaches for the shampoo and starts washing his hair. He hands it to me and I follow suit.
Oh, this feels good. Closing my eyes, I succumb to the cleansing, warming water. As I rinse off
the shampoo, I feel his hands on me, soaping my body: my shoulders, my arms, under my arms, my
breasts, my back. Gently he turns me around and pulls me against him as he continues down my body:
my stomach, my belly, his skilled fingers between my legs—hmm—my behind. Oh, that feels good
and so intimate. He turns me around to face him again.
“Here,” he says quietly, handing me the body wash. “I want you to wash off the remains of the
lipstick.”
My eyes open in a flurry and dart quickly to his. He’s staring at me intently, soaking wet and
beautiful, his glorious, bright gray eyes giving nothing away.“Don’t stray far from the line, please,” he mutters tightly.
“Okay,” I murmur, trying to absorb the enormity of what he’s just asked me to do—to touch him
on the edge of the forbidden zone.
I squeeze a small amount of soap on my hand, rub my hands together to create a lather, then place
them on his shoulders and gently wash away the line of lipstick on each side. He stills and closes his
eyes, his face impassive, but he’s breathing rapidly, and I know it’s not lust but fear. It cuts me to the
quick.
With trembling fingers, I carefully follow the line down the side of his chest, soaping and
rubbing softly, and he swallows, his jaw tense as if his teeth are clenched. Oh! My heart constricts and
my throat tightens. Oh no, I’m going to cry.
I stop to add more soap to my hand and feel him relax in front of me. I can’t look up at him. I
can’t bear to see his pain—it’s too much. I swallow.
“Ready?” I murmur and the tension is loud and clear in my voice.
“Yes,” he whispers, his voice husky, laced with fear.
Gently, I place my hands on either side of his chest, and he freezes again.
It’s too much. I am overwhelmed by his trust in me—overwhelmed by his fear, by the damage
done to this beautiful, fallen, flawed man.
Tears pool in my eyes and spill down my face, lost in the water from the shower. Oh, Christian!
Who did this to you?
His diaphragm moves rapidly with each shallow breath, his body is rigid, tension radiating off
him in waves as my hands move along the line, erasing it. Oh, if I could just erase your pain, I would
—I’d do anything—and I want nothing more than to kiss every single scar I see, to kiss away those
hideous years of neglect. But I know I can’t, and my tears fall unbidden down my cheeks.
“No. Please, don’t cry,” he murmurs, his voice anguished as he wraps me tightly in his arms.
“Please don’t cry for me.” And I burst into full-blown sobs, burying my face against his neck, as I
think of a little boy lost in a sea of fear and pain, frightened, neglected, abused—hurt beyond all
endurance.
Pulling away, he clasps my head with both hands, tilts it backward, and leans down to kiss me.
“Don’t cry, Ana, please,” he murmurs against my mouth. “It was long ago. I am aching for you to
touch me, but I just can’t bear it. It’s too much. Please, please don’t cry.”
“I want to touch you, too. More than you’ll ever know. To see you like this... so hurt and afraid,
Christian... it wounds me deeply. I love you so much.”
He runs his thumb across my bottom lip. “I know. I know,” he whispers.
“You’re very easy to love. Don’t you see that?”
“No, baby, I don’t.”
“You are. And I do and so does your family. So do Elena and Leila—they have a strange way of
showing it—but they do. You are worthy.”
“Stop.” He puts his finger over my lips and shakes his head, an agonized expression on his face.
“I can’t hear this. I’m nothing, Anastasia. I’m a husk of a man. I don’t have a heart.”
“Yes, you do. And I want it, all of it. You’re a good man, Christian, a really good man. Don’t ever
doubt that. Look at what you’ve done... what you’ve achieved,” I sob. “Look what you’ve done for
me... what you’ve turned your back on, for me,” I whisper. “I know. I know how you feel about me.”
He gazes down at me, his eyes wide and panicked, and all we can hear is the steady stream of
water as it flows over us in the shower.
“You love me,” I whisper.
His eyes widen further and his mouth opens. He takes a huge breath as if winded. He lookstortured—vulnerable.
“Yes,” he whispers. “I do.”I cannot contain my jubilation. My subconscious gapes at me open-mouthed—in stunned silence—and
I wear a face-splitting grin as I gaze longingly up into Christian’s wide, tortured eyes.
His soft sweet confession calls to me on some deep elemental level as if he’s seeking absolution;
his three small words are my manna from heaven. Tears prick my eyes once more. Yes, you do. I know
you do.
It’s such a liberating realization as if a crushing millstone has been tossed aside. This beautiful,
fucked-up man, whom I once thought of as my romantic hero—strong, solitary, mysterious—
possesses all these traits, but he’s also fragile and alienated and full of self-loathing. My heart swells
with joy but also pain for his suffering. And I know in this moment that my heart is big enough for
both of us. I hope it’s big enough for both of us.
I reach up to clasp his dear, dear, handsome face and kiss him gently, pouring all the love I feel
into this one sweet connection. I want to devour him beneath the hot cascading water. Christian groans
and encircles me in his arms, holding me as if I am the air he needs to breathe.
“Oh, Ana,” he whispers hoarsely, “I want you, but not here.”
“Yes,” I murmur fervently into his mouth.
He switches off the shower and takes my hand, leading me out and enfolding me in my bathrobe.
Grabbing a towel, he wraps it around his waist, then takes a smaller one and begins to gently dry my
hair. When he’s satisfied, he swathes the towel around my head so that in the large mirror over the
sink I look like I’m wearing a veil. He’s standing behind me and our eyes meet in the mirror,
smoldering gray to bright blue, and it gives me an idea.
“Can I reciprocate?” I ask.
He nods, though his brow creases. I reach for another towel from the plethora of fluffy towels
stacked beside the vanity, and standing before him on tiptoe, I start to dry his hair. He bends forward,
making the process easier, and as I catch the occasional glimpse of his face beneath the towel, I see
he’s grinning at me like a small boy.
“It’s a long time since anyone did this to me. A very long time,” he murmurs, but then frowns.
“In fact I don’t think anyone’s ever dried my hair.”
“Surely Grace did? Dried your hair when you were young?”
He shakes his head, hampering my progress.“No. She respected my boundaries from day one, even though it was painful for her. I was very
self-sufficient as a child,” he says quietly.
I feel a swift kick in the ribs as I think of a small copper-haired child looking after himself
because no one else cares. The thought is sickeningly sad. But I don’t want my melancholy to hijack
this blossoming intimacy.
“Well, I’m honored,” I gently tease him.
“That you are, Miss Steele. Or maybe it is I who am honored.”
“That goes without saying, Mr. Grey,” I respond tartly.
I finish with his hair, reach for another small towel, and move round to stand behind him. Our
eyes meet again in the mirror, and his watchful, questioning look prompts me to speak.
“Can I try something?”
After a moment, he nods. Warily, and very gently, I run the soft cloth down his left arm, soaking
up the water that has beaded on his skin. Glancing up, I check his expression in the mirror. He blinks
at me, his eyes burning into mine.
I lean forward and kiss his bicep, and his lips part infinitesimally. I dry his other arm in a similar
fashion, trailing kisses around his bicep, and a small smile plays on his lips. Carefully, I wipe his back
beneath the faint lipstick line, which is still visible. I hadn’t gotten round to washing his back.
“Whole back,” he says quietly, “with the towel.” He takes a sharp breath and screws his eyes
closed as I briskly dry him, careful to touch him only with the towel.
He has such an attractive back—broad, sculptured shoulders, all the small muscles clearly
defined. He really looks after himself. The beautiful sight is marred only by his scars.
With difficulty, I ignore them and suppress my overwhelming urge to kiss each and every one.
When I finish he exhales, and I lean forward and reward him with a kiss on his shoulder. Putting my
arms around him, I dry his stomach. Our eyes meet once more in the mirror, his expression amused
but wary, too.
“Hold this.” I hand him a smaller face towel, and he gives me a bemused frown. “Remember in
Georgia? You made me touch myself using your hands,” I add.
His face darkens, but I ignore his reaction and put my arms around him. Gazing at us both in the
mirror—his beauty, his nakedness, and me with my covered hair—we look almost Biblical, as if from
an Old Testament baroque painting.
I reach for his hand, which he willingly entrusts to me, and guide it up to his chest to dry it,
sweeping the towel slowly, awkwardly across his body. Once, twice—then again. He’s completely
immobilized, rigid with tension, except for his eyes, which follow my hand clasped around his.
My subconscious looks on with approval, her normally pursed mouth smiling, and I am the
supreme puppet master. His anxiety ripples off his back in waves, but he maintains eye contact,
though his eyes are darker, more deadly. Showing their secrets maybe.
Is this a place I want to go? Do I want to confront his demons?
“I think you’re dry now,” I whisper as I drop my hand, gazing into the gray depths of his eyes in
the mirror. His breathing is accelerated, lips parted.
“I need you, Anastasia,” he whispers.
“I need you, too.” And as I say the words, I am struck how true they are. I cannot imagine being
without Christian, ever.
“Let me love you,” he says hoarsely.
“Yes,” I answer, and turning, he hauls me into his arms, his lips seeking mine, beseeching me,
worshipping me, cherishing me... loving me.He trails his fingers up and down my spine as we gaze at each other, basking in our postcoital bliss,
replete. We lie together, me on my front hugging my pillow, he on his side, and I am treasuring his
tender touch. I know that right now he needs to touch me. I am a balm for him, a source of solace, and
how could I deny him that? I feel exactly the same about him.
“So you can be gentle,” I murmur.
“Hmm... so it would seem, Miss Steele.”
I grin. “You weren’t particularly the first time we... um, did this.”
“No?” He smirks. “When, I robbed you of your virtue.”
“I don’t think you robbed me,” I mutter haughtily—Jeez, I’m not a helpless maiden. “I think my
virtue was offered up pretty freely and willingly. I wanted you, too, and if I remember correctly, I
rather enjoyed myself.” I smile shyly at him, biting my lip.
“So did I if I recall, Miss Steele. We aim to please,” he drawls and his face softens, serious. “And
it means you’re mine, completely.” All trace of humor has vanished as he gazes at me.
“Yes, I am,” I murmur back at him. “I wanted to ask you something.”
“Go ahead.”
“Your biological father... do you know who he was?” This thought has been bugging me.
His brow creases, and then he shakes his head. “I have no idea. Wasn’t the savage who was her
pimp, which is good.”
“How do you know?”
“Something my dad... something Carrick said to me.”
I gaze at my Fifty expectantly, waiting. He smirks at me.
“So hungry for information, Anastasia,” he sighs, shaking his head. “The pimp discovered the
crack whore’s body and phoned it in to the authorities. Took him four days to make the discovery
though. He shut the door when he left... left me with her... her body.” His eyes cloud at the memory.
I inhale sharply. Poor baby boy—the horror is too grim to contemplate.
“Police interviewed him later. He denied flat out I was anything to do with him, and Carrick said
he looked nothing like me.”
“Do you remember what he did look like?”
“Anastasia, this isn’t a part of my life I revisit very often. Yes, I remember what he looked like.
I’ll never forget him.” Christian’s face darkens and hardens, becoming more angular, his eyes frosting
with anger. “Can we talk about something else?”
“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to upset you.”
He shakes his head. “It’s old news, Ana. Not something I want to think about.”
“So what’s this surprise, then?” I need to change the subject before he goes all Fifty on me. His
expression lightens immediately.
“Can you face going out for some fresh air? I want to show you something.”
“Of course.”
I marvel how quickly he turns—mercurial as ever. He grins at me with his boyish, carefree, I’m-
only-twenty-seven smile, and my heart lurches into my mouth. So it’s something close to his heart, I
can tell. He swats me playfully on my behind.
“Get dressed. Jeans will be good. I hope Taylor’s packed some for you.”
He rises and pulls on his boxer briefs. Oh... I could sit here all day, watching him wander around
the room. My inner goddess agrees, swooning as she ogles from her chaise longue.
“Up,” he scolds, bossy as ever. I gaze at him, grinning.
“Just admiring the view.”
He rolls his eyes at me.
As we dress, I notice that we move with the synchronization of two people who know each otherwell, each watchful and acutely aware of the other, exchanging the occasional shy smile and sweet
touch. And it dawns on me that this is just as new for him as it is for me.
“Dry your hair,” Christian orders once we’re dressed.
“Domineering as ever.” I smirk at him, and he leans down to kiss my hair.
“That’s never going to change, baby. I don’t want you sick.”
I roll my eyes at him, and his mouth twists in amusement.
“My palms still twitch, you know, Miss Steele.”
“I am glad to hear it, Mr. Grey. I was beginning to think you were losing your edge,” I retort.
“I could easily demonstrate that is not the case, should you so wish.” Christian drags a large,
cream, cable-knit sweater out of his bag and drapes it artfully over his shoulders. With his white T-
shirt and jeans, his artfully rumpled hair, and now this, he looks as if he’s stepped out of the pages of a
high-end glossy magazine.
No one should look this good. And I don’t know if it’s the momentary distraction of his sheer
perfect looks or the knowledge that he loves me, but his threat no longer fills me with dread. This is
my Fifty Shades; this is the way he is.
As I reach for the hairdryer, a tangible ray of hope blossoms. We will find a middle way. We just
have to recognize each other’s needs and accommodate them. I can do that, surely?
I gaze at myself in the dresser mirror. I’m wearing the pale blue shirt that Taylor bought and had
packed for me. My hair is a mess, my face flushed, my lips swollen—I touch them, remembering
Christian’s searing kisses, and I can’t help a small smile as I stare. Yes, I do, he said.
“Where are we going exactly?” I ask as we wait in the lobby for the parking valet.
Christian taps the side of his nose and winks at me conspiratorially, looking like he’s desperately
trying to contain his glee. Frankly, it’s very un-Fifty.
He was like this when we went gliding—perhaps that’s what we’re doing. I beam back at him. He
stares down his nose at me in that superior way he has with his lopsided grin. Leaning down, he kisses
me gently.
“Do you have any idea how happy you make me feel?” he murmurs.
“Yes... I know exactly. Because you do the same for me.”
The valet zooms up in Christian’s car, wearing a face-splitting grin. Jeez, everyone is so happy
today.
“Great car, sir,” he mumbles as he hands over the keys. Christian winks and gives him an
obscenely large tip.
I frown at him. Honestly.
As we cruise through the traffic, Christian is deep in thought. A young woman’s voice comes over the
loudspeakers; it has a beautiful, rich, mellow timbre, and I lose myself in her sad, soulful voice.
“I need to make a detour. It shouldn’t take long,” he says absentmindedly, distracting me from
the song.
Oh, why? I’m intrigued to know the surprise. My inner goddess is bouncing about like a five-
year-old.“Sure,” I murmur. Something is amiss. Suddenly, he looks grimly determined.
He pulls into the parking lot of large car dealership, stops the car, and turns to face me, his
expression wary.
“We need to get you a new car,” he says. I gape at him.
Now? On a Sunday? What the hell? And this is a Saab dealership.
“Not an Audi?” is, stupidly, the only thing I can think of to say, and bless him, he actually
flushes.
Holy cow—Christian, embarrassed. This is a first.
“I thought you might like something else,” he mutters. He’s almost squirming.
Oh, please... This is too valuable an opportunity not to tease him. I smirk. “A Saab?”
“Yeah. A 9-3. Come.”
“What is it with you and foreign cars?”
“The Germans and the Swedes make the safest cars in the world, Anastasia.”
Do they? “I thought you’d already ordered me another Audi A3?”
He gives me a darkly amused look. “I can cancel that. Come.” Climbing smoothly out of the car,
he strolls gracefully to my side and opens my door.
“I owe you a graduation present,” he says softly and holds his hand out for me.
“Christian, you really don’t have to do this.”
“Yes, I do. Please. Come.” His tone says he’s not to be trifled with.
I resign myself to my fate. A Saab? Do I want a Saab? I quite like the Audi Submissive Special. It
was very nifty.
Of course, now it’s under a ton of white paint... I shudder. And she’s still out there.
I take Christian’s hand, and we wander into the showroom.
Troy Turniansky, the salesman, is all over Fifty like a cheap suit. He can smell a sale. Weirdly
his accent sounds mid-Atlantic, maybe British? It’s difficult to tell.
“A Saab, sir? Pre-owned?” He rubs his hands with glee.
“New.” Christian’s lips set into a hard line.
New!
“Did you have a model in mind, sir?” And he’s smarmy, too.
“9-3 2.0T Sport Sedan.”
“An excellent choice, sir.”
“What color, Anastasia?” Christian inclines his head.
“Er... black?” I shrug. “You really don’t need to do this.”
He frowns. “Black’s not easily seen at night.”
Oh, for heaven’s sake. I resist the temptation to roll my eyes. “You have a black car.”
He scowls at me.
“Bright canary yellow then.” I shrug.
Christian makes a face—canary yellow is obviously not his thing.
“What color do you want me to have?” I ask as if he’s a small child, which he is in many ways.
The thought is unwelcome—sad and sobering at once.
“Silver or white.”
“Silver, then. You know I’ll take the Audi,” I add, chastened by my thoughts.
Troy pales, sensing he’s losing a sale. “Perhaps you’d like the convertible, ma’am?” he asks,
clapping his hands with enthusiasm.
My subconscious is cringing in disgust, mortified by the whole buying-a-car business, but my
inner goddess tackles her to the floor. Convertible? Drool!Christian frowns and peers at me. “Convertible?” he asks, raising an eyebrow.
I flush. It’s like he has a direct hotline to my inner goddess, which of course, he has. It’s most
inconvenient at times. I stare down at my hands.
Christian turns to Troy. “What are the safety stats on the convertible?”
Troy, sensing Christian’s vulnerability, heads in for the kill, reeling off all manner of statistics.
Of course, Christian wants me safe. It’s a religion with him, and like the zealot he is, he listens
intently to Troy’s well-honed patter. Fifty really does care.
Yes. I do. I remember his whispered, choked words from this morning, and a melting glow
spreads like warm honey through my veins. This man—God’s gift to women—loves me.
I find myself grinning goofily at him, and when he glances down at me, he’s amused yet puzzled
by my expression. I just want to hug myself, I am so happy.
“Whatever you’re high on, I’d like some, Miss Steele,” he murmurs as Troy heads off to his
computer.
“I’m high on you, Mr. Grey.”
“Really? Well you certainly look intoxicated.” He kisses me briefly. “And thank you for
accepting the car. That was easier than last time.”
“Well, it’s not an Audi A3.”
He smirks. “That’s not the car for you.”
“I liked it.”
“Sir, the 9-3? I’ve located one at our Beverly Hills dealership. We can have it here for you in a
couple of days.” Troy glows with triumph.
“Top of the range?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Excellent.” Christian produces his credit card, or is it Taylor’s? The thought is unnerving. I
wonder how Taylor is, and if he’s located Leila in the apartment. I rub my forehead. Yes, there’s all of
Christian’s baggage, too.
“If you’ll come this way, Mr.”—Troy glances at the name on the card—“Grey.”
Christian opens my door, and I climb back into the passenger seat.
“Thank you,” I say when he’s seated beside me.
He smiles.
“You’re most welcome, Anastasia.”
The music starts again as Christian starts the engine.
“Who’s this?” I ask.
“Eva Cassidy.”
“She has a lovely voice.”
“She does, she did.”
“Oh.”
“She died young.”
“Oh.”
“Are you hungry? You didn’t finish all your breakfast.” He glances quickly at me, disapproval
outlined on his face.
Uh-oh. “Yes.”
“Lunch first, then.”Christian drives toward the waterfront then heads north along the Alaskan Way. It’s another
beautiful day in Seattle. It’s been uncharacteristically fine for the last few weeks, I muse.
Christian looks happy and relaxed as we sit back listening to Eva Cassidy’s sweet, soulful voice
and cruise down the highway. Have I ever felt this comfortable in his company before? I don’t know.
I am less nervous of his moods, confident that he won’t punish me, and he seems more
comfortable with me, too. He turns left, following the coast road, and eventually pulls up in a parking
lot opposite a vast marina.
“We’ll eat here. I’ll open your door,” he says in such a way that I know it’s not wise to move, and
I watch him move around the car. Will this ever get old?
We stroll arm in arm to the waterfront where the marina stretches out in front of us.
“So many boats,” I murmur in wonder. There are hundreds of them in all shapes and sizes,
bobbing up and down on the calm, still waters of the marina. Out on the Sound there are dozens of
sails in the wind, weaving to and fro, enjoying the fine weather. It’s a wholesome, outdoorsy sight.
The wind has picked up a little, so I pull my jacket around me.
“Cold?” he asks and pulls me tightly against him.
“No, just admiring the view.”
“I could stare at it all day. Come, this way.”
Christian leads me into a large seafront bar and makes his way to the counter. The décor is more
New England than West Coast—white-limed walls, pale blue furnishings, and boating paraphernalia
hanging everywhere. It’s a bright, cheery place.
“Mr. Grey!” the barman greets Christian warmly. “What can I get you this afternoon?”
“Dante, good afternoon.” Christian grins as we both slip onto bar stools. “This lovely lady is
Anastasia Steele.”
“Welcome to SP’s Place.” Dante gives me a friendly smile. He’s black and beautiful, his dark
eyes assessing me and not finding me wanting, it seems. One large diamond stud winks at me from his
ear. I like him immediately.
“What would you like to drink, Anastasia?”
I glance at Christian, who regards me expectantly. Oh, he’s going to let me choose.
“Please, call me Ana, and I’ll have whatever Christian’s drinking.” I smile shyly at Dante. Fifty’s
so much better at wine than I am.
“I’m going to have a beer. This is the only bar in Seattle where you can get Adnam’s Explorer.”
“A beer?”
“Yes.” He grins at me. “Two Explorers, please, Dante.”
Dante nods and sets up the beers on the bar.
“They do a delicious seafood chowder here,” Christian says.
He’s asking me.
“Chowder and beer sounds great.” I smile at him.
“Two chowders?” Dante asks.
“Please.” Christian grins at him.
We talk through our meal, as we never have before. Christian is relaxed and calm—he looks
young, happy, and animated despite all that transpired yesterday. He recounts the history of Grey
Enterprises Holdings, and the more he reveals, the more I sense his passion for fixing problem
companies, his hopes for the technology he’s developing, and his dreams of making land in the thirdworld more productive. I listen enraptured. He’s funny, clever, philanthropic, and beautiful, and he
loves me.
In turn, he plagues me with questions about Ray and my mom, about growing up in the lush
forests of Montesano, and my brief stints in Texas and Vegas. He demands to know my favorite books
and films, and I’m surprised by how much we have in common.
As we talk, it strikes me that he’s turned from Hardy’s Alec to Angel, debasement to high ideal in
such a short space of time.
It’s after two when we finish our meal. Christian settles the tab with Dante, who wishes us a fond
farewell.
“This is a great place. Thank you for lunch,” I say as Christian takes my hand and we leave the
bar.
“We’ll come again,” he says, and we stroll along the waterfront. “I wanted to show you
something.”
“I know... and I can’t wait to see it, whatever it is.”
We wander hand in hand along the marina. It is such a pleasant afternoon. People are out enjoying
their Sunday—walking dogs, admiring the boats, watching their kids run along the promenade.
As we head down the marina, the boats are getting progressively larger. Christian leads me on to
the dock and stops in front of a huge catamaran.
“I thought we’d go sailing this afternoon. This is my boat.”
Holy cow. It must be at least forty, maybe fifty feet. Two sleek white hulls, a deck, a roomy
cabin, and towering over them a very tall mast. I know nothing about boats, but I can tell this one is
special.
“Wow...,” I murmur in wonder.
“Built by my company,” he says proudly and my heart swells. “She’s been designed from the
ground up by the very best naval architects in the world and constructed here in Seattle at my yard.
She has hybrid electric drives, asymmetric dagger boards, a square-topped mainsail—”
“Okay... you’ve lost me, Christian.”
He grins. “She’s a great boat.”
“She looks mighty fine, Mr. Grey.”
“That she does, Miss Steele.”
“What’s her name?”
He pulls me to the side so I can see her name: The Grace. I’m surprised. “You named her after
your mom?”
“Yes.” He cocks his head to one side, quizzical. “Why do you find that strange?”
I shrug. I am surprised—he always seems ambivalent in her presence.
“I adore my mom, Anastasia. Why wouldn’t I name a boat after her?”
I flush. “No, it’s not that... it’s just...” Shit, how can I put this into words?
“Anastasia, Grace Trevelyan saved my life. I owe her everything.”
I gaze at him, and let the reverence in his softly spoken admission wash over me. It’s obvious to
me, for the first time, that he loves his mom. Why then his strange strained ambivalence toward her?
“Do you want to come aboard?” he asks, his eyes bright, excited.
“Yes, please.” I smile.
He looks delighted and delightful in one yummy scrumptious package. Grasping my hand, hestrides up the small gangplank and leads me aboard so that we are standing on deck beneath a rigid
canopy.
To one side there’s a table and a U-shaped banquette covered in pale blue leather, which must
seat at least eight people. I glance through the sliding doors to the interior of the cabin and jump,
startled when I spy someone there. The tall blond man opens the sliding doors and emerges—all
tanned, curly-haired and brown-eyed—wearing a faded pink short-sleeved polo shirt, shorts, and deck
shoes. He must be in his early thirties.
“Mac.” Christian beams.
“Mr. Grey! Welcome back.” They shake hands.
“Anastasia, this is Liam McConnell. Liam, my girlfriend, Anastasia Steele.”
Girlfriend! My inner goddess performs a quick arabesque. She’s still grinning over the
convertible. I have to get used to this—it’s not the first time he’s said it, but hearing him say it is still
a thrill.
“How do you do?” Liam and I shake hands.
“Call me Mac,” he says warmly, and I can’t place his accent. “Welcome aboard, Miss Steele.”
“Ana, please,” I mutter, flushing. He has deep brown eyes.
“How’s she shaping up, Mac?” Christian interjects quickly, and for a moment, I think he’s
talking about me.
“She’s ready to rock and roll, sir,” Mac beams. Oh, the boat, The Grace. Silly me.
“Let’s get underway, then.”
“You going to take her out?”
“Yep.” Christian flashes Mac a quick wicked grin. “Quick tour, Anastasia?”
“Yes, please.”
I follow him inside the cabin. An L-shaped cream leather sofa is directly in front of us, and above
it, a massive curved window offers a panoramic view of the marina. To the left is the kitchen area—
very well appointed, all pale wood.
“This is the main saloon. Galley beside,” Christian says, waving his hand in the direction of the
kitchen.
He takes my hand and leads me through the main cabin. It’s surprisingly spacious. The floor is
the same pale wood. It looks modern and sleek and has a light, airy feel, but it’s all very functional, as
if he doesn’t spend much time here.
“Bathrooms on either side.” Christian points to two doors, then opens the small, oddly shaped
door directly in front of us and steps in. We’re in a plush bedroom. Oh...
It has a king-size cabin bed and is all pale blue linen and pale wood like his bedroom at Escala.
Christian obviously chooses a theme and sticks to it.
“This is the master cabin.” He gazes down at me, gray eyes glowing. “You’re the first girl in
here, apart from family,” he smirks. “They don’t count.”
I flush under his heated stare, and my pulse quickens. Really? Another first. He pulls me into his
arms, his fingers tangling in my hair, and kisses me, long and hard. We’re both breathless when he
pulls away.
“Might have to christen this bed,” he whispers against my mouth.
Oh, at sea!
“But not right now. Come, Mac will be casting off.” I ignore the stab of disappointment as he
takes my hand and leads me back through the saloon. He indicates another door.
“Office in there, and at the front here, two more cabins.”
“So how many can sleep on board?”“It’s a six-berth cat. I’ve only ever had the family on board, though. I like to sail alone. But not
when you’re here. I need to keep an eye on you.”
He delves into a chest and pulls out a bright red lifejacket.
“Here.” Putting it over my head, he tightens all the straps, a faint smile playing on his lips.
“You love strapping me in, don’t you?”
“In any form,” he says, a wicked grin playing on his lips.
“You are a pervert.”
“I know.” He raises his eyebrows and his grin broadens.
“My pervert,” I whisper.
“Yes, yours.”
Once secured, he grabs the sides of the jacket and kisses me. “Always,” he breathes, then releases
me before I have a chance to respond.
Always! Holy shit.
“Come.” He grabs my hand and leads me outside, up some steps, and onto the upper deck to a
small cockpit that houses a big steering wheel and a raised seat. At the prow of the boat, Mac is doing
something with ropes.
“Is this where you learned all your rope tricks?” I ask Christian innocently.
“Clove hitches have come in handy,” he says, looking at me appraisingly. “Miss Steele, you
sound curious. I like you curious, baby. I’d be more than happy to demonstrate what I can do with a
rope.” He smirks at me, and I gaze back impassively as if he’s upset me. His face falls.
“Gotcha.” I grin.
His mouth twists and he narrows his eyes. “I may have to deal with you later, but right now, I’ve
got to drive my boat.” He sits at the controls, presses a button, and the engines roar into life.
Mac comes scooting back down the side of the boat, grinning at me, and jumps down to the deck
below where he starts to unfasten a rope. Maybe he knows some rope tricks, too. The idea pops
unwelcome into my head and I flush.
My subconscious glares at me. Mentally I shrug at her and glance at Christian—I blame Fifty. He
picks up the receiver and radios the coastguard as Mac calls up that we are set to go.
Once more, I am dazzled by Christian’s expertise. He’s so competent. Is there nothing that this
man can’t do? Then I remember his earnest attempt to chop and dice a pepper in my apartment on
Friday. The thought makes me smile.
Slowly, Christian eases The Grace out of her berth and toward the marina entrance. Behind us, a
small crowd has gathered on the dockside to watch our departure. Small children are waving, and I
wave back.
Christian glances over his shoulder, then pulls me between his legs and points out various dials
and gadgets in the cockpit. “Grab the wheel,” he orders, bossy as ever, but I do as I’m told.
“Aye, aye, captain!” I giggle.
Placing his hands snugly over mine, he continues to steer our course out of the marina, and within
a few minutes, we are out on the open sea, slap into the cold blue waters of Puget Sound. Away from
the shelter of the marina’s protective wall, the wind is stronger, and the sea pitches and rolls beneath
us.
I can’t help but grin, feeling Christian’s excitement—this is such fun. We make a large curve
until we are heading west toward the Olympic Peninsula, the wind behind us.
“Sail time,” Christian says, excited. “Here—you take her. Keep her on this course.”
What? He grins, reacting to the horror in my face.
“Baby, it’s really easy. Hold the wheel and keep your eye on the horizon over the bow. You’ll do
great; you always do. When the sails go up, you’ll feel the drag. Just hold her steady. I’ll signal likethis”—he makes a slashing motion across his throat—“and you can cut the engines. This button here.”
He points to a large black button. “Understand?”
“Yes.” I nod frantically, feeling panicky. Jeez—I hadn’t expected to do anything!
He kisses me quickly, then he steps off his captain’s chair and bounds up to the front of the boat
to join Mac where he starts unfurling sails, untying ropes, and operating winches and pulleys. They
work well together in a team, shouting various nautical terms to each other, and it’s warming to see
Fifty interacting with someone else in such a carefree manner.
Perhaps Mac is Fifty’s friend. He doesn’t seem to have many, as far as I can tell, but then, I don’t
have many either. Well, not here in Seattle. The only friend I have is on vacation sunning herself in St.
James on the west coast of Barbados.
I have a sudden pang for Kate. I miss my roommate more than I thought I would when she left. I
hope she changes her mind and comes home with her brother Ethan, rather than prolong her stay with
Christian’s brother Elliot.
Christian and Mac hoist the mainsail. It fills and billows out as the wind seizes it hungrily, and
the boat lurches suddenly, zipping forward. I feel it through the wheel. Whoa!
They get to work on the headsail, and I watch fascinated as it flies up the mast. The wind catches
it, stretching it taut.
“Hold her steady, baby, and cut the engines!” Christian cries out to me over the wind, motioning
me to switch off the engines. I can only just hear his voice, but I nod enthusiastically, gazing at the
man I love, all windswept, exhilarated, and bracing himself against the pitch and yaw of the boat.
I press the button, the roar of the engines ceases, and The Grace soars toward the Olympic
Peninsula, skimming across the water as if she’s flying. I want to yell and scream and cheer—this has
to be one of the most exhilarating experiences of my life—except perhaps the glider, and maybe the
Red Room of Pain.
Holy cow, this boat can move! I stand firm, grasping the wheel, fighting the rudder, and Christian
is behind me once more, his hands on mine.
“What do you think?” he shouts above the sound of the wind and the sea.
“Christian! This is fantastic.”
He beams, grinning from ear to ear. “You wait until the spinney’s up.” He points with his chin
toward Mac, who is unfurling the spinnaker—a sail that’s a dark, rich red. It reminds me of the walls
in the playroom.
“Interesting color,” I shout.
He gives me a wolfish grin and winks. Oh, it’s deliberate.
The spinney balloons out—a large, odd elliptical shape—putting The Grace in overdrive. Finding
her head, she speeds over the Sound.
“Asymmetrical sail. For speed.” Christian answers my unasked question.
“It’s amazing.” I can think of nothing better to say. I have the most ridiculous grin on my face as
we whip through the water, heading for the majesty of the Olympic Mountains and Bainbridge Island.
Glancing back, I see Seattle shrinking behind us, Mount Rainier in the far distance.
I had not really appreciated how beautiful and rugged Seattle’s surrounding landscape is—
verdant, lush, and temperate, tall evergreens and cliff faces jutting out here and there. It has a wild but
serene beauty on this glorious sunny afternoon that takes my breath away. The stillness is stunning
compared to our speed as we whip across the water.
“How fast are we going?”
“She’s doing 15 knots.”
“I have no idea what that means.”“It’s about 17 miles an hour.”
“Is that all? It feels much faster.”
He squeezes my hands, smiling. “You look lovely, Anastasia. It’s good to see some color in your
cheeks... and not from blushing. You look like you do in José’s photos.”
I turn and kiss him.
“You know how to show a girl a good time, Mr. Grey.”
“We aim to please, Miss Steele.” He scoops my hair out of the way and kisses the back of my
neck, sending delicious tingles down my spine. “I like seeing you happy,” he murmurs and tightens his
arms around me.
I gaze out over the wide blue water, wondering what I could possibly have done in the past to
have fortune smile and deliver this beautiful man to me.
Yes, you’re a lucky bitch, my subconscious snaps. But you have your work cut out with him. He’s
not going to want this vanilla crap forever... you’re going to have to compromise. I glare mentally at
her snarky, insolent face and rest my head against Christian’s chest. But deep down I know my
subconscious is right, but I banish the thoughts. I don’t want to spoil my day.
An hour later, we are anchored in a small, secluded cove off Bainbridge Island. Mac has gone ashore
in the inflatable—for what, I don’t know—but I have my suspicions because as soon as Mac starts the
outboard engine, Christian grabs my hand and practically drags me into his cabin, a man with a
mission.
Now he stands before me, exuding his intoxicating sensuality as his deft fingers make quick work
of the straps on my lifejacket. He tosses it to one side and gazes intently down at me, eyes dark,
dilated.
I’m already lost and he’s barely touched me. He raises his hand to my face, and his fingers move
down my chin, the column of my throat, my sternum, searing me with his touch, to the first button of
my blue blouse.
“I want to see you,” he breathes and dexterously undoes the button. Bending, he plants a soft kiss
on my parted lips. I am panting and eager, aroused by the potent combination of his captivating
beauty, his raw sexuality in the confines of this cabin, and the gentle sway of the boat. He stands back.
“Strip for me,” he whispers, eyes burning.
Oh my. I’m only too happy to comply. Not taking my eyes off his, I slowly undo each button,
savoring his scorching gaze. Oh, this is heady stuff. I can see his desire—it’s evident on his face... and
elsewhere.
I let my shirt fall to the floor and reach for the button on my jeans.
“Stop,” he orders. “Sit.”
I sit down on the edge of the bed, and in one fluid movement he’s on his knees in front of me,
undoing the laces of first one and then the other sneaker, pulling each off, followed by my socks. He
picks up my left foot and raising it, plants a soft kiss on the pad of my big toe, then grazes his teeth
against it.
“Ah!” I moan as I feel the effect in my groin. He stands in one smooth move, holds his hand out
to me, and pulls me up off the bed.
“Continue,” he says and stands back to watch me.
I ease the zipper of my jeans down and hook my thumbs in the waistband as I sashay then slide
the denim down my legs. A soft smile plays on his lips, but his eyes remain dark.And I don’t know if it’s because he made love to me this morning, and I mean really made love
to me, gently, sweetly, or if it was his impassioned declaration— yes... I do—but I don’t feel
embarrassed at all. I want to be sexy for this man. He deserves sexy—he makes me feel sexy.
Okay, it’s new to me, but I’m learning under his expert tutelage. And then again, so much is new
to him, too. It balances the seesaw between us, a little, I think.
I am wearing some of my new underwear—a white lacy thong and matching bra—a designer
brand with a price tag to match. I step out of my jeans and stand there for him in the lingerie he’s paid
for, but I no longer feel cheap. I feel his.
Reaching behind I unhook my bra, sliding the straps down my arms, and drop it on top of my
blouse. Slowly, I slip my panties off, letting them fall to my ankles, and step out of them, surprised by
my grace.
Standing before him, I am naked and unashamed, and I know it’s because he loves me. I no
longer have to hide. He says nothing, just gazes at me. All I see is his desire, his adoration even, and
something else, the depth of his need—the depth of his love for me.
He reaches down, lifts the hem of his cream-colored sweater, and pulls it over his head, followed
by his T-shirt, revealing his chest, never taking his bold gray eyes off mine. His shoes and socks
follow before he grasps the button of his jeans.
Reaching over, I whisper, “Let me.”
His lips purse briefly into an ooh shape, and he smiles. “Be my guest.”
I step toward him, slip my fearless fingers inside the waistband of his jeans, and tug so he’s
forced to take a step closer to me. He gasps involuntarily at my unexpected audacity then smiles down
at me. I undo the button, but before I unzip him I let my fingers wander, tracing his erection through
the soft denim. He flexes his hips into my palm and closes his eyes briefly, relishing my touch.
“You’re getting so bold, Ana, so brave,” he whispers and clasps my face with both hands, bending
to kiss me deeply.
I put my hands on his hips—half on his cool skin and half on the low-slung waistband of his
jeans. “So are you,” I murmur against his lips as my thumbs rub slow circles on his skin, and he
smiles.
“Getting there.”
I move my hands to the front of his jeans and pull down the zipper. My intrepid fingers move
through his pubic hair to his erection, and I grasp him tightly.
He makes a low sound in his throat, his sweet breath washing over me, and he kisses me again,
lovingly. As my hand moves over him, around him, stroking him, squeezing him tightly, he puts his
arms around me, his right hand flat against the middle of my back and his fingers spread. His left hand
is in my hair, holding me to his mouth.
“Oh, I want you so much, baby,” he breathes, and steps back suddenly to remove his jeans and
boxers in one swift, agile move. He is a fine, fine sight in or out of clothes, every single inch of him.
He is perfect. His beauty desecrated only by his scars, I think sadly. And they run so much deeper
than his skin.
“What’s wrong, Ana?” he murmurs and gently strokes my cheek with his knuckles.
“Nothing. Love me, now.”
He pulls me into his arms, kissing me, twisting his hands into my hair. Our tongues entwined, he
walks me backward to the bed and gently lowers me onto it, following me down so that he’s lying by
my side.
He runs his nose along my jawline as my hands move to his hair.
“Do you have any idea how exquisite your scent is, Ana? It’s irresistible.”
His words do what they always do—flame my blood, quicken my pulse—and he trails his nosedown my throat, across my breasts, kissing me reverentially as he does.
“You are so beautiful,” he murmurs, as he takes one of my nipples in his mouth and softly
suckles.
I moan as my body bows off the bed.
“Let me hear you, baby.”
His hand trails down to my waist, and I glory in the feel of his touch, skin to skin—his hungry
mouth at my breasts and his skilled long fingers caressing and stroking me, cherishing me. Moving
over my hips, over my behind, and down my leg to my knee, and all this time he’s kissing and sucking
my breasts—oh my.
Grasping my knee, he suddenly hitches my leg up, curling it over his hips, making me gasp, and I
feel rather than see his responding grin against my skin. He rolls over so that I am astride him and
hands me a foil packet.
I shift back, taking him in my hands, and I just can’t resist him in all his glory. I bend and kiss
him, taking him in my mouth, swirling my tongue around him, then sucking hard. He groans and
flexes his hips so that he’s deeper in my mouth.
Mmm... he tastes good. I want him inside me. I sit up and gaze at him; he’s breathless, mouth
open, watching me intently.
Hurriedly I tear open the condom and unroll it over him. He holds out his hands for me. I take
one and with my other hand, position myself over him, then slowly claim him as mine.
He groans low in his throat, closing his eyes.
The feel of him in me... stretching... filling me—I moan softly—it’s divine. He places his hands
on my hips and moves me up, down, and pushes into me. Oh... it’s so good.
“Oh, baby,” he whispers, and suddenly he sits up so we’re nose to nose, and the sensation is
extraordinary—so full. I gasp, grabbing his upper arms as he clasps my head in his hands and gazes
into my eyes—his intense and gray, burning with desire.
“Oh, Ana. What you make me feel,” he murmurs and kisses me passionately with fervent ardor. I
kiss him back, dizzy with the delicious feeling of him buried deep inside me.
“Oh, I love you,” I murmur. He groans as if pained to hear my whispered words and rolls over,
taking me with him without breaking our precious contact, so that I’m lying beneath him. I wrap my
legs around his waist.
He stares down at me with adoring wonder, and I am sure I mirror his expression as I reach up to
caress his beautiful face. Very slowly, he starts to move, closing his eyes as he does and moaning
softly.
The gentle sway of the boat and the peace and quiet tranquility of the cabin are broken only by
our mingled breaths as he moves slowly in and out of me, so controlled and so good—it’s heavenly.
He puts his arm over my head, his hand on my hair, and he caresses my face with the other as he bends
to kiss me.
I’m cocooned by him, as he loves me, slowly moving in and out, savoring me. I touch him—
sticking to the boundaries—his arms, his hair, his lower back, his beautiful behind—and my breathing
accelerates as his steady rhythm pushes me higher and higher. He’s kissing my mouth, my chin, my
jaw, then nibbling my ear. I can hear his staccato breaths with each gentle thrust of his body.
My body starts to quiver. Oh... This feeling that I now know so well... I am close... Oh...
“That’s right, baby... give it up for me... Please... Ana,” he murmurs and his words are my
undoing.
“Christian,” I call out, and he groans as we both come together.“Mac will be back soon,” he murmurs.
“Hmm.” My eyes flicker open to meet his soft gray gaze. Lord, his eyes are an amazing color—
especially here, out on the sea—reflecting the light bouncing off the water through the small portholes
into the cabin.
“As much as I’d like to lie here with you all afternoon, he’ll need a hand with the dinghy.”
Leaning over, Christian kisses me tenderly. “Ana, you look so beautiful right now, all mussed up and
sexy. Makes me want you more.” He smiles and rises from the bed. I lay on my front admiring the
view.
“You ain’t so bad yourself, captain.” I smack my lips in admiration and he grins.
I watch him move gracefully about the cabin as he dresses. He really is divinely beautiful, and
what’s more, he’s just made such sweet love to me again. I can hardly believe my good fortune. I can’t
quite believe that this man is mine. He sits down beside me to put on his shoes.
“Captain, eh?” he says dryly. “Well, I am master of this vessel.”
I cock my head to one side. “You are master of my heart, Mr. Grey.” And my body... and my soul.
He shakes his head incredulously and bends to kiss me. “I’ll be on deck. There’s a shower in the
bathroom if you want one. Do you need anything? A drink?” he asks solicitously, and all I can do is
grin at him. Is this the same man? Is this the same Fifty?
“What?” he says, reacting to my stupid grin.
“You.”
“What about me?”
“Who are you and what have you done with Christian?”
He lips twitch with a sad smile.
“He’s not very far away, baby,” he says softly, and there’s a touch of melancholy in his voice that
makes me instantly regret asking the question. But he shakes it off. “You’ll see him soon enough”—he
smirks at me—“especially if you don’t get up.” Reaching over, he smacks me hard on my behind so I
yelp and laugh at the same time.
“You had me worried.”
“Did I, now?” Christian’s brow creases. “You do give off some mixed signals, Anastasia. How’s
a man supposed to keep up?” He leans down and kisses me again. “Laters, baby,” he adds, and with adazzling smile, he gets up and leaves me to my scattered thoughts.
When I surface on deck, Mac is back on board, but he disappears onto the upper deck as I open the
saloon doors. Christian is on his Blackberry. Talking to whom? I wonder. He wanders over and pulls
me close, kissing my hair.
“Great news... good. Yeah... Really? The fire escape stairwell?... I see... Yes, tonight.”
He hits the end button, and the sound of the engines firing up startles me. Mac must be in the
cockpit above.
“Time to head back,” Christian says, kissing me once more as he straps me into my lifejacket.
The sun is low in the sky behind us as we make our way back to the marina, and I reflect on a
wonderful afternoon. Under Christian’s careful, patient tuition, I have now stowed a mainsail, a
headsail, and a spinnaker and learned to tie a reef knot, clove hitch, and sheepshank. His lips were
twitching throughout the lesson.
“I may tie you up one day,” I mutter crabbily.
His mouth twists with humor. “You’ll have to catch me first, Miss Steele.”
His words bring to mind him chasing me round the apartment, the thrill, then the hideous
aftermath. I frown and shudder. After that, I left him.
Would I leave him again now that he’s admitted he loves me? I gaze up into his clear gray eyes.
Could I ever leave him again—no matter what he did to me? Could I betray him like that? No. I don’t
think I could.
He’s given me a more thorough tour of this beautiful boat, explaining all the innovative designs
and techniques, and the high-quality materials used to build it. I remember the interview when I first
met him. I picked up then on his passion for ships. I thought his love was only for the ocean-going
freighters his company builds—not for super-sexy, sleek catamarans, too.
And, of course, he’s made sweet, unhurried love to me. I shake my head, remembering my body
bowed and wanting beneath his expert hands. He is an exceptional lover, I’m sure—though, of course,
I have no comparison. But Kate would have raved more if it was always like this; it’s not like her to
hold back on details.
But how long will this be enough for him? I just don’t know, and the thought is unnerving.
Now he sits, and I stand in the safe circle of his arms for hours, it seems, in comfortable,
companionable silence as The Grace glides closer and closer to Seattle. I have the wheel, Christian
advising on adjustments every so often.
“There is poetry in sailing as old as the world,”[1] he murmurs in my ear.
“That sounds like a quote.”
I sense his grin. “It is. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.”
“Oh... I adore The Little Prince.”
“Me, too.”It is early evening as Christian, his hands still on mine, steers us into the marina. There are lights
winking from the boats, reflecting off the dark water, but it is still light—a balmy, bright evening, an
overture for what is sure to be a spectacular sunset.
A crowd gathers on the dockside as Christian slowly turns the boat around in a relatively small
space. He does it with ease and reverses smoothly into the same berth we left earlier. Mac jumps on to
the dock and ties The Grace securely to a bollard.
“Back again,” Christian murmurs.
“Thank you,” I murmur shyly. “That was a perfect afternoon.”
Christian grins. “I thought so, too. Perhaps we can enroll you in sailing school, so we can go out
for a few days, just the two of us.”
“I’d love that. We can christen the bedroom again and again.”
He leans forward and kisses me under my ear. “Hmm... I look forward to it, Anastasia,” he
whispers, making every single hair follicle on my body stand to attention.
How does he do that?
“Come, the apartment is clean. We can go back.”
“What about our things at the hotel?”
“Taylor has collected them already.”
Oh! When?
“Earlier today, after he did a sweep of The Grace with his team.” Christian answers my unspoken
question.
“Does that poor man ever sleep?”
“He sleeps.” Christian quirks an eyebrow at me, puzzled. “He’s just doing his job, Anastasia,
which he’s very good at. Jason is a real find.”
“Jason?”
“Jason Taylor.”
I remember when I thought Taylor was his first name. Jason.It suits him—solid, reliable. For
some reason it makes me smile.
“You’re fond of Taylor,” Christian says, eyeing me with speculation.
“I suppose I am.” His question derails me. He frowns. “I’m not attracted to him, if that’s why
you’re frowning. Stop.”
Christian is almost pouting—sulky.
Jeez, he’s such a child sometimes. “I think Taylor looks after you very well. That’s why I like
him. He seems kind, reliable and loyal. He has an avuncular appeal to me.”
“Avuncular?”
“Yes.”
“Okay, avuncular.” Christian is testing the word and meaning. I laugh.
“Oh, Christian, grow up, for heaven’s sake.”
His mouth drops open, surprised by my outburst, but then he frowns as if considering my
statement. “I’m trying,” he says eventually.
“That you are. Very.” I answer softly but then roll my eyes at him.
“What memories you evoke when you roll your eyes at me, Anastasia.” He grins.
I smirk at him. “Well, if you behave yourself, maybe we can relive some of those memories.”
His mouth twists with humor. “Behave myself?” He raises his eyebrows. “Really, Miss Steele—
what makes you think I want to relive them?”
“Probably the way your eyes lit up like Christmas when I said that.”
“You know me so well already,” he says dryly.“I’d like to know you better.”
He smiles softly. “And I you, Anastasia.”
“Thanks, Mac.” Christian shakes McConnell’s hand and steps on the dock.
“Always a pleasure, Mr. Grey, and good-bye. Ana, great to meet you.”
I shake his hand shyly. He must know what Christian and I were up to on the boat while he went
ashore.
“Good day, Mac, and thank you.”
He grins at me and winks, making me flush. Christian takes my hand, and we walk up the dock to
the marina’s promenade.
“Where’s Mac from?” I ask, curious about his accent.
“Ireland... Northern Ireland,” Christian corrects himself.
“Is he your friend?”
“Mac? He works for me. Helped build The Grace.”
“Do you have many friends?”
He frowns. “Not really. Doing what I do... I don’t cultivate friendships. There’s only—” He stops,
his frown deepening, and I know he was going to mention Mrs. Robinson.
“Hungry?” he asks, trying to change the subject.
I nod. Actually, I’m famished.
“We’ll eat where I left the car. Come.”
Next to SP’s is a small Italian bistro called Bee’s. It reminds me of the place in Portland—a few tables
and booths, the décor very crisp and modern with a large black and white photograph of a turn-of-the-
century fiesta serving as a mural.
Christian and I are seated in a booth, poring over the menu and sipping a delicious light Frascati.
When I glance up from the menu, having made my choice, Christian is gazing at me speculatively.
“What?” I ask.
“You look lovely, Anastasia. The outdoors agrees with you.”
I flush. “I feel rather wind-burned to tell the truth. But I had a lovely afternoon. A perfect
afternoon. Thank you.”
He smiles, his eyes warm. “My pleasure,” he murmurs.
“Can I ask you something?” I decide on a fact-finding mission.
“Anything, Anastasia. You know that.” He cocks his head to one side, looking delicious.
“You don’t seem to have many friends. Why is that?”
He shrugs and frowns. “I told you, I don’t really have time. I have business associates—though
that’s very different from friendships, I suppose. I have my family and that’s it. Apart from Elena.”
I ignore the mention of the bitch-troll. “No male friends your own age that you can go out with
and let off steam?”
“You know how I like to let off steam, Anastasia.” Christian’s mouth twists. “And I’ve been
working, building up the business.” He looks puzzled. “That’s all I do—except sail and fly
occasionally.”
“Not even in college?”“Not really.”
“Just Elena, then?”
He nods, his expression wary.
“Must be lonely.”
His lips curl in a small wistful smile. “What would you like to eat?” he asks, changing the subject
again.
“I’m going for the risotto.”
“Good choice.” Christian summons the waiter, putting an end to that conversation.
After we’ve placed our order, I shift uncomfortably in my seat, staring at my knotted fingers. If
he’s in a talking mood, I need to take advantage.
I have to talk to him about his expectations, about his, um... needs.
“Anastasia, what’s wrong? Tell me.”
I glance up into his concerned face.
“Tell me,” he says more forcefully, and his concern evolves into what? Fear? Anger?
I take a deep breath. “I’m just worried that this isn’t enough for you. You know, to let off steam.”
His jaw tenses and his eyes harden. “Have I given you any indication that this isn’t enough?”
“No.”
“Then why do you think that?”
“I know what you’re like. What you... um... need,” I stutter.
He closes his eyes and rubs his forehead with long fingers.
“What do I have to do?” His voice is ominously soft as if he’s angry, and my heart sinks.
“No, you misunderstand—you have been amazing, and I know it’s just been a few days, but I
hope I’m not forcing you to be someone you’re not.”
“I’m still me, Anastasia—in all my fifty shades of fuckedupness. Yes, I have to fight the urge to
be controlling... but that’s my nature, how I’ve dealt with my life. Yes, I expect you to behave a
certain way, and when you don’t it’s both challenging and refreshing. We still do what I like to do.
You let me spank you after your outrageous bid yesterday.” He smiles fondly at the memory. “I enjoy
punishing you. I don’t think the urge will ever go... but I’m trying, and it’s not as hard as I thought it
would be.”
I squirm and flush, remembering our illicit tryst in his childhood bedroom. “I didn’t mind that,” I
whisper, smiling shyly.
“I know.” His lips curl in a reluctant smile. “Neither did I. But let me tell you, Anastasia, this is
all new to me and these last few days have been the best in my life. I don’t want to change anything.”
Oh!
“They’ve been the best in my life, too, without exception,” I murmur and his smile broadens. My
inner goddess nods frantically in agreement—and nudges me hard. Okay, okay.
“So you don’t want to take me into your playroom?”
He swallows and pales, all trace of humor gone. “No, I don’t.”
“Why not?” I whisper. This is not the answer I expected.
And yes, there it is, that little pinch of disappointment. My inner goddess stomps off pouting, her
arms crossed like an angry toddler.
“The last time we were in there you left me,” he says quietly. “I will shy away from anything that
could make you leave me again. I was devastated when you left. I explained that. I never want to feel
like that again. I’ve told you how I feel about you.” His gray eyes are wide and intense with his
sincerity.
“But it hardly seems fair. It can’t be very relaxing for you—to be constantly concerned about
how I feel. You’ve made all these changes for me, and I... I think I should reciprocate in some way. Idon’t know—maybe... try... some role-playing games,” I stutter, my face as crimson as the walls of
the playroom.
Why is this so hard to talk about? I have done all manner of kinky fuckery with this man, things I
hadn’t even heard of a few weeks ago, things that I would never have thought possible, yet the hardest
of all is talking to him.
“Ana, you do reciprocate, more than you know. Please, please don’t feel like this.”
Gone is carefree Christian. His eyes are wider now with alarm, and it’s gut-wrenching. “Baby,
it’s only been one weekend,” he continues. “Give us some time. I thought a great deal about us last
week when you left. We need time. You need to trust me, and I you. Maybe in time we can indulge,
but I like how you are now. I like seeing you this happy, this relaxed and carefree, knowing that I had
something to do with it. I have never—” He stops and runs his hand through his hair. “We have to
walk before we can run.” Suddenly he smirks.
“What’s so funny?”
“Flynn. He says that all the time. I never thought I’d be quoting him.”
“A Flynnism.”
Christian laughs. “Exactly.”
The waiter arrives with our starters and bruschetta, and our conversation changes tack as
Christian relaxes.
But when the unfeasibly large plates are placed before us, I can’t help think how I have thought
of Christian today—relaxed, happy and carefree. At least he’s laughing now, at ease again.
I breathe an inward sigh of relief as he starts quizzing me about places I’ve been. This is a short
discussion, since I have never been anywhere except the continental US. Christian, on the other hand,
has traveled the world. We slip into an easier, happier conversation, talking about all the places he’s
visited.
After our tasty and filling meal, Christian drives back to Escala, Eva Cassidy’s gentle sweet voice
singing over the speakers. It allows me a peaceful interlude in which to think. I have had a mind-
blowing day. Dr. Greene, our shower, Christian’s admission, making love at the hotel and on the boat,
buying the car. Even Christian himself has been so different. It’s as if he’s letting go of something or
rediscovering something—I don’t know.
Who knew he could be so sweet? Did he?
When I glance at him, he, too, looks lost in thought. It strikes me then that he never really had an
adolescence—a normal one anyway. I shake my head.
My mind drifts back to the ball and dancing with Dr. Flynn and Christian’s fear that Flynn had
told me all about him. Christian is still hiding something from me. How can we move on if he feels
that way?
He thinks I might leave if I know him. He thinks that I might leave if he’s himself. Oh, this man
is so complicated.
As we get closer to his home, he starts radiating tension until it becomes palpable. As we drive,
he scans the sidewalks and side alleys, his eyes darting everywhere, and I know he’s looking for Leila.
I start looking, too. Every young brunette is a suspect, but we don’t see her.
When he pulls into the garage, his mouth is set in a tense, grim line. I wonder why we’ve come
back here if he’s going to be so wary and uptight. Sawyer is in the garage, patrolling. The defiled Audi
is gone. He comes to open my door as Christian pulls in beside the SUV.“Hello, Sawyer,” I murmur my greeting.
“Miss Steele.” He nods. “Mr. Grey.”
“No sign?” Christian asks.
“No, sir.”
Christian nods, grasps my hand, and heads for the elevator. I know his brain is working overtime
—he’s distracted. Once we’re inside he turns to me.
“You are not allowed out of here alone. You understand?” he snaps.
“Okay.” Jeez—keep your hair on. But his attitude makes me smile. I want to hug myself—now
this man, all domineering and short with me I know. I marvel that I would have found it so threatening
only a week or so ago when he spoke to me this way. But now, I understand him so much better. This
is his coping mechanism. He’s stressed about Leila, he loves me, and he wants to protect me.
“What’s so funny?” he murmurs, a hint of amusement in his expression.
“You are.”
“Me? Miss Steele? Why am I funny?” he pouts.
Christian pouting is... hot.
“Don’t pout.”
“Why?” He’s even more amused.
“Because it has the same effect on me as I have on you when I do this.” I bite my lip deliberately.
He raises his eyebrows, surprised and pleased at the same time. “Really?” He pouts again and
leans down to give me a swift chaste kiss.
I raise my lips to meet his, and in the nanosecond when our lips touch, the nature of the kiss
changes—wildfire spreading through my veins from this intimate point of contact, driving me to him.
Suddenly, my fingers are curling in his hair as he grabs me and pushes me against the elevator
wall, his hands framing my face, holding me to his lips as our tongues thrash against each other. And I
don’t know if it’s the confines of the elevator making everything much more real, but I feel his need,
his anxiety, his passion.
Holy shit. I want him, here, now.
The elevator pings to a halt, the doors slide open, and Christian drags his face from mine, his hips
still pinning me to the wall, his erection digging into me.
“Whoa,” he murmurs panting.
“Whoa,” I mirror him, dragging a welcome breath into my lungs.
He gazes at me, eyes blazing. “What you do to me, Ana.” He traces my lower lip with his thumb.
Out of the corner of my eye, Taylor steps backward so he’s no longer in my line of sight. I reach
up and kiss Christian at the corner of his beautifully sculptured mouth.
“What you do to me, Christian.”
He steps back and takes my hand, his eyes darker now, hooded. “Come,” he orders.
Taylor is still in the foyer, waiting discreetly for us.
“Good evening, Taylor,” Christian says cordially.
“Mr. Grey, Miss Steele.”
“I was Mrs. Taylor yesterday.” I grin at Taylor, who flushes.
“That has a nice ring to it, Miss Steele,” Taylor says matter-of-factly.
“I thought so, too.”
Christian tightens his hold on my hand, scowling. “If you two have quite finished, I’d like a
debrief.” He glares at Taylor, who now looks uncomfortable, and I cringe inwardly. I have overstepped
the mark.
“Sorry,” I mouth at Taylor, who shrugs and smiles kindly before I turn to follow Christian.
“I’ll be with you shortly. I just want a word with Miss Steele,” Christian says to Taylor, and Iknow I’m in trouble.
Christian leads me into his bedroom and closes the door.
“Don’t flirt with the staff, Anastasia,” he scolds.
I open my mouth to defend myself—then close it again, then open it. “I wasn’t flirting. I was
being friendly—there is a difference.”
“Don’t be friendly with the staff or flirt with them. I don’t like it.”
Oh. Good-bye, carefree Christian. “I’m sorry,” I mutter and stare down at my fingers. He hasn’t
made me feel like a child all day. Reaching down he cups my chin, pulling my head up to meet his
eyes.
“You know how jealous I am,” he whispers.
“You have no reason to be jealous, Christian. You own me body and soul.”
He blinks as if he’s finding this fact hard to process. He leans down and kisses me quickly, but
with none of the passion we experienced a moment ago in the elevator.
“I won’t be long. Make yourself at home,” he says sulkily and turns, leaving me standing in his
bedroom, dazed and confused.
Why on earth would he be jealous of Taylor? I shake my head in disbelief.
Glancing at the alarm clock, I notice it’s just after eight. I decide to get my clothes ready for
work tomorrow. I head upstairs to my room and open the walk-in closet. It’s empty. All the clothes
have gone. Oh no! Christian has taken me at my word and disposed of the clothes. Shit.
My subconscious glares at me. Well, that will be you and your big mouth.
Why did he take me at my word? My mother’s advice comes back to haunt me, “Men are so
literal, darling.” I pout, staring at the empty space. There were some lovely clothes, too, like the
silver dress I wore to the ball.
I wander disconsolately into the bedroom, Wait a moment—what is going on? The iPad is gone.
Where’s my Mac? Oh no. My first uncharitable thought is that Leila may have stolen them.
I fly back downstairs and back into Christian’s bedroom. On the bedside table are my Mac, my
iPad, and my satchel. It’s all here.
I open the walk-in closet door. My clothes are here—all of them—sharing space with Christian’s
clothes. When did this happen? Why does he never warn me before he does things like this?
I turn, and he’s standing in the doorway.
“Oh, they managed the move,” he mutters, distracted.
“What’s wrong?” I ask. His face is grim.
“Taylor thinks Leila was getting in through the emergency stairwell. She must have had a key.
All the locks have been changed now. Taylor’s team has done a sweep of every room in the apartment.
She’s not here.” He stops and runs a hand through his hair. “I wish I knew where she was. She’s
evading all our attempts to find her when she needs help.” He frowns, and my earlier pique vanishes. I
put my arms around him. Folding me into his embrace, he kisses my hair.
“What will you do when you find her?” I ask.
“Dr. Flynn has a place.”
“What about her husband?”
“He’s washed his hands of her.” Christian’s tone is bitter. “Her family is in Connecticut. I think
she’s very much on her own out there.”
“That’s sad.”
“Are you okay with all your stuff being here? I want you to share my room,” he murmurs.
Whoa, quick change of direction.“Yes.”
“I want you sleeping with me. I don’t have nightmares when you’re with me.”
“You have nightmares?”
“Yes.”
I tighten my hold around him. Holy cow. More baggage. My heart contracts for this man.
“I was just getting my clothes ready for work tomorrow,” I mutter.
“Work!” Christian exclaims as if it’s a dirty word, and he releases me, glaring.
“Yes, work,” I reply, confused by his reaction.
He stares at me with complete incomprehension. “But Leila—she’s out there,” he pauses. “I don’t
want you to go to work.”
What? “That’s ridiculous, Christian. I have to go to work.”
“No, you don’t.”
“I have a new job, which I enjoy. Of course I have to go to work.” What does he mean?
“No, you don’t,” he repeats, emphatically.
“Do you think I am going to stay here twiddling my thumbs while you’re off being Master of the
Universe?”
“Frankly... yes.”
Oh, Fifty, Fifty, Fifty... give me strength.
“Christian, I need to go to work.”
“No, you don’t.”
“Yes. I. Do.” I say it slowly as if he’s a child.
He scowls at me. “It’s not safe.”
“Christian... I need to work for a living, and I’ll be fine.”
“No, you don’t need to work for a living—and how do you know you’ll be fine?” He’s almost
shouting.
What does he mean? He’s going to support me? Oh, this is beyond ridiculous—I’ve known him
for what—five weeks?
He’s angry now, his gray eyes stormy and flashing, but I don’t give a shit.
“For heaven’s sake, Christian, Leila was standing at the end of your bed, and she didn’t harm me,
and yes, I do need to work. I don’t want to be beholden to you. I have my student loans to pay.”
His mouth presses into a grim line, as I place my hands on my hips. I am not budging on this.
Who the fuck does he think he is?
“I don’t want you going to work.”
“It’s not up to you, Christian. This is not your decision to make.”
He runs his hand through his hair as he stares at me. Seconds, minutes tick by as we glare at each
other.
“Sawyer will come with you.”
“Christian, that’s not necessary. You’re being irrational.”
“Irrational?” he growls. “Either he comes with you, or I will be really irrational and keep you
here.”
He wouldn’t, would he? “How, exactly?”
“Oh, I’d find a way, Anastasia. Don’t push me.”
“Okay!” I concede, holding up both my hands, placating him. Holy fuck—Fifty is back with a
vengeance.
We stand, scowling at each other.
“Okay—Sawyer can come with me if it makes you feel better.” I concede rolling my eyes.Christian narrows his and takes a menacing step in my direction. I immediately step back. He stops
and takes a deep breath, closes his eyes, and runs both his hands through his hair. Oh no. Fifty is well
and truly wound up.
“Shall I give you a tour?”
A tour? Are you kidding me? “Okay,” I mutter warily. Another change of tack—Mr. Mercurial is
back in town. He holds out his hand and when I take it, he squeezes mine softly.
“I didn’t mean to frighten you.”
“You didn’t. I was just getting ready to run,” I quip.
“Run?” Christian eyes widen.
“I’m joking!” Oh jeez.
He leads me out of the closet, and I take a moment to calm down. Adrenaline is still coursing
through my body. A fight with Fifty is not to be undertaken lightly.
He gives me a tour of the apartment, showing me the various rooms. Along with the playroom
and three spare bedrooms upstairs, I’m intrigued to find that Taylor and Mrs. Jones have a wing to
themselves—a kitchen, spacious living area, and a bedroom each. Mrs. Jones has not yet returned
from visiting her sister who lives in Portland.
Downstairs, the room that catches my eye is opposite his study—a TV room with a too-large
plasma screen and assorted games consoles. It’s cozy.
“So you do have an Xbox?” I smirk.
“Yes, but I’m crap at it. Elliot always beats me. That was funny, when you thought I meant this
room was my playroom.” He grins down at me his snit-fit forgotten. Thank heavens he’s recovered his
good mood.
“I’m glad you find me amusing, Mr. Grey,” I respond haughtily.
“That you are, Miss Steele—when you’re not being exasperating, of course.”
“I’m usually exasperating when you’re being unreasonable.”
“Me? Unreasonable?”
“Yes, Mr. Grey. Unreasonable could be your middle name.”
“I don’t have a middle name.”
“Unreasonable would suit then.”
“I think that’s a matter of opinion, Miss Steele.”
“I would be interested in Dr. Flynn’s professional opinion.”
Christian smirks.
“I thought Trevelyan was your middle name.”
“No. Surname.”
“But you don’t use it.”
“It’s too long. Come,” he commands. I follow him out of the TV room through the great room to
the main corridor past the utility room and an impressive wine cellar and into Taylor’s own large,
well-equipped office. Taylor stands when we enter. There’s room in here for a meeting table that seats
six. Above one desk is a bank of monitors. I had no idea the apartment had CCTV. It appears to
monitor the balcony, stairwell, service elevator, and foyer.
“Hi, Taylor. I’m just giving Anastasia a tour.”
Taylor nods but doesn’t smile. I wonder if he’s been told off, too, and why is he still working?
When I smile at him, he nods politely. Christian grabs my hand once more and leads me to the library.
“And, of course, you’ve been in here.” Christian opens the door. I spy the green baize of the
billiard table.
“Shall we play?” I ask. Christian smiles, surprised.
“Okay. Have you played before?”“A few times,” I lie, and he narrows his eyes, cocking his head to one side.
“You’re a hopeless liar, Anastasia. Either you’ve never played before or—”
I lick my lips. “Frightened of a little competition?”
“Frightened of a little girl like you?” Christian scoffs good-naturedly.
“A wager, Mr. Grey.”
“You’re that confident, Miss Steele?” He smirks, amused and incredulous at once. “What would
you like to wager?”
“If I win, you’ll take me back into the playroom.”
He gazes at me as if he can’t quite comprehend what I’ve said. “And if I win?” he asks after
several shell-shocked beats.
“Then it’s your choice.”
His mouth twists as he contemplates his answer. “Okay, deal.” He smirks. “Do you want to play
pool, English snooker or carom billiards?”
“Pool, please. I don’t know the others.”
From a cupboard beneath one of the bookshelves, Christian takes out a large leather case. Inside
the pool balls are nested in velvet. Quickly and efficiently, he racks the balls on the baize. I don’t
think I’ve ever played pool on such a large table before. Christian hands me a cue and some chalk.
“Would you like to break?” He feigns politeness. He’s enjoying himself—he thinks he’s going to
win.
“Okay.” I chalk the end of my cue, and blow the excess chalk off—staring up at Christian through
my lashes. His eyes darken as I do.
I line up on the white ball and with a swift clean stroke, hit the center ball of the triangle square
on with such force that a striped ball spins and plunges into the top right pocket. I’ve scattered the rest
of the balls.
“I choose stripes,” I say innocently, smiling coyly at Christian. His mouth twists in amusement.
“Be my guest,” he says politely.
I proceed to pocket the next three balls in quick succession. Inside, I’m dancing. At this moment,
I am so grateful to José for teaching me to play pool and play it well. Christian watches impassively,
giving nothing away, but his amusement seems to ebb. I miss the green stripe by a hairsbreadth.
“You know, Anastasia, I could stand here and watch you leaning and stretching across this
billiard table all day,” he says appreciatively.
I flush. Thank heavens I am wearing my jeans. He smirks. He’s trying to put me off my game, the
bastard. He pulls his cream sweater over his head, tosses it onto the back of a chair, and grins at me, as
he saunters over to take his first shot.
He bends low over the table. My mouth goes dry. Oh, I see what he means. Christian in tight
jeans and white T-shirt, bending, like that... is something to behold. I quite lose my train of thought.
He sinks four solids rapidly, then fouls by sinking the white.
“A very elementary mistake, Mr. Grey,” I tease.
He smirks. “Ah, Miss Steele, I am but a foolish mortal. Your go, I believe.” He waves at the
table.
“You’re not trying to lose are you?”
“Oh no. For what I have in mind as the prize, I want to win, Anastasia.” He shrugs casually. “But
then, I always want to win.”
I narrow my eyes at him. Right then... I’m so glad I’m wearing my blue blouse, which is
pleasingly low-cut. I stalk around the table, bending low at every available opportunity—giving
Christian an eyeful of my behind and my cleavage whenever I can. Two can play at that game. I glanceat him.
“I know what you’re doing,” he whispers, his eyes dark.
I tilt my head coquettishly to one side, gently fondling my cue, running my hand up and down it
slowly. “Oh. I am just deciding where to take my next shot,” I murmur distractedly.
Leaning across, I hit the orange stripe into a better position. I then stand directly in front of
Christian and take the rest from underneath the table. I line up my next shot, leaning right over the
table. I hear Christian’s sharp intake of breath, and of course, I miss. Shit.
He comes to stand behind me while I am still bent over the table and places his hand on my
backside. Hmm...
“Are you waving this around to taunt me, Miss Steele?” And he smacks me, hard.
I gasp. “Yes,” I mutter, because it’s true.
“Be careful what you wish for, baby.”
I rub my behind as he wanders to the other end of the table, leans over, and takes his shot. Jeez, I
could look at him all day. He hits the red ball, and it shoots into the left side pocket. He aims for the
yellow, top right, and it just misses. I grin.
“Red Room here we come,” I taunt him.
He merely raises an eyebrow and directs me to continue. I make quick work of the green stripe
and by some fluke, manage to knock in the final orange stripe.
“Name your pocket,” Christian murmurs, and it’s as if he’s talking about something else,
something dark and rude.
“Top left-hand.” I take aim over the black, hit it, but miss. It skirts wide. Damn.
Christian smiles a wicked grin as he leans over the table and makes short work of the two
remaining solids. I am practically panting, watching him, his lithe body stretching over the table. He
stands and chalks his cue, his eyes burning into me.
“If I win...”
Oh yes?
“I am going to spank you, then fuck you over this billiard table.”
Holy shit. Every single muscle south of my navel clenches hard.
“Top right,” he murmurs, pointing to the black, and bends to take the shot.
[1]
1 de Saint-Exupéry, Antoine. Night Flight. Translated by Stuart Gilbert. New Jersey: Prentice Hall, June 1932. (First published in 1931 under the original title of Vol de nuit.)With easy grace, Christian taps the white ball so that it glides across the table, kisses the black and oh-
so-slowly the black rolls, teeters on the edge, and finally drops into the top right pocket of the billiard
table.
Damn.
He stands, and his mouth twists in a triumphant I-so-own-you-Steele smile. Putting down his cue,
he saunters casually toward me, all tousled hair, jeans, and white T-shirt. He doesn’t look like a CEO
—he looks like a bad boy from the wrong side of town. Holy cow, he’s so fucking sexy.
“You’re not going to be a sore loser, are you?” he murmurs, barely containing his grin.
“Depends how hard you spank me,” I whisper, holding on to my cue for support. He takes my cue
and puts it to one side, hooks his finger into the top of my shirt, and pulls me toward him.
“Well, let’s count your misdemeanors, Miss Steele.” He counts on his long fingers. “One, making
me jealous of my own staff. Two, arguing with me about working. And three, waving your delectable
derriere at me for the last twenty minutes.”
His eyes glow a soft gray with excitement, and leaning down, he rubs his nose against mine. “I
want you to take your jeans and this very fetching shirt off. Now.” He plants a feather-soft kiss on my
lips, wanders nonchalantly over to the door, and locks it.
Oh my.
When he turns and gazes at me, his eyes are burning. I stand paralyzed like a complete zombie,
my heart pounding, my blood pumping, not actually able to move a muscle. In my mind, all I can
think is—this is for him—the thought repeating like a mantra over and over again.
“Clothes, Anastasia. You appear to still be wearing them. Take them off—or I will do it for you.”
“You do it.” I finally find my voice, and it sounds low and heated. Christian grins.
“Oh, Miss Steele. It’s a dirty job, but I think I can rise to the challenge.”
“You normally rise to most challenges, Mr. Grey.” I raise an eyebrow at him, and he smirks.
“Why, Miss Steele, whatever do you mean?” On his way over to me, he pauses at the small desk
built into one of the bookshelves. Reaching over, he picks up a twelve-inch Perspex ruler. He holds
each end and flexes it, his eyes not leaving mine.
Holy shit—his weapon of choice. My mouth goes dry.
Suddenly, I’m hot and bothered and damp in all the right places. Only Christian could turn me onwith just a look and the flex of a ruler. He slips it into the back pocket of his jeans and ambles toward
me, eyes dark and full of promise. Without saying a word, he drops to his knees in front of me and
starts to undo my laces, quickly and efficiently, dragging both my Converse and socks off. I lean on
the side of the billiard table so I don’t fall. Gazing down at him as he undoes my laces, I marvel at the
depth of feeling that I have for this beautiful flawed man. I love him.
He grabs my hips, slips his fingers into the waistband of my jeans, and undoes the button and
zipper. He peers up through his long lashes, grinning his most salacious grin as he slowly peels my
jeans off. I step out of them, glad that I’m wearing these pretty, pretty panties, and he grasps the back
of my legs and runs his nose along the apex of my thighs. I practically melt.
“I want to be quite rough with you, Ana. You’ll have to tell me to stop if it’s too much,” he
breathes.
Oh my. He kisses me... there. I moan softly.
“Safe word?” I murmur.
“No, no safe word, just tell me to stop, and I’ll stop. Understand?” He kisses me again, nuzzling
me. Oh, that feels good. He stands, his stare intense. “Answer me,” he orders his voice velvet soft.
“Yes, yes, I understand.” I’m puzzled by his insistence.
“You’ve been dropping hints and giving me mixed signals all day, Anastasia,” he says. “You said
you were worried I’d lost my edge. I’m not sure what you meant by that, and I don’t know how serious
you were, but we are going to find out. I don’t want to go back into the playroom yet, so we can try
this now, but if you don’t like it, you must promise to tell me.” A burning intensity born of his anxiety
replaces his earlier cockiness.
Whoa, please don’t be anxious, Christian. “I’ll tell you. No safe word,” I reiterate to reassure
him.
“We’re lovers, Anastasia. Lovers don’t need safe words.” He frowns. “Do they?”
“I guess not,” I murmur. Jeez—how do I know? “I promise.”
He searches my face for any clue that I might lack the courage of my convictions, and I’m
nervous but excited, too. I’m much happier to do this, knowing that he loves me. It’s very simple to
me, and right now, I don’t want to overthink it.
A slow smile stretches across his face, and he starts to unbutton my shirt, his deft fingers making
short work of it, though he doesn’t take it off. He leans over and picks up the cue.
Oh fuck, what’s he going to do with that? A frisson of fear runs through me.
“You play well, Miss Steele. I must say I’m surprised. Why don’t you sink the black?”
My fear forgotten, I pout, wondering why the hell he should be surprised—sexy, arrogant bastard.
My inner goddess is limbering up in the background, doing her floor exercises—a great fat smile on
her face.
I position the white ball. Christian strolls back around the table and stands right behind me as I
lean over to take my shot. He places his hand on my right thigh and runs his fingers up and down my
leg, up to my behind and back again, lightly stroking me.
“I am going to miss if you keep doing that,” I whisper, closing my eyes and relishing the feel of
his hands on me.
“I don’t care if you hit or miss, baby. I just wanted to see you like this—partially dressed,
stretched out on my billiard table. Do you have any idea how hot you look at the moment?”
I flush, and my inner goddess grabs a rose between her teeth and starts to tango. Taking a deep
breath, I try to ignore him and line up my shot. It’s impossible. He caresses my behind, over and over
again.
“Top left,” I murmur, then hit the white ball. He smacks me hard, squarely on my backside.It’s so unexpected, I yelp. The white hits the black, which bounces off the cushion wide of the
pocket. Christian caresses my behind again.
“Oh, I think you need to try that again,” he whispers. “You should concentrate, Anastasia.”
I am panting now, excited by this game. He strolls to the end of the table, sets up the black ball
again, then runs the white ball back down to me. He looks so carnal, dark eyed with a lascivious smile.
How could I ever resist this man? I catch the ball and line it up, ready to strike again.
“Uh-uh,” he admonishes. “Just wait.” Oh, he just loves prolonging the agony. He wanders back
and stands behind me again. I close my eyes once more as he strokes my left thigh this time then
fondles my backside again.
“Take aim,” he breathes.
I can’t help my moan as desire twists and turns inside me. And I try, really try, to think about
where I should hit the black with the white. I shift slightly to my right, and he follows me. I bend over
the table once more. Using every last vestige of inner strength—which has diminished considerably
since I know what will happen once I strike the white ball—I take aim and hit the white again.
Christian smacks me once more, hard.
Ow! I miss again. “Oh no!” I groan.
“Once more, baby. And if you miss this time, I’m really going to let you have it.”
What? Have what?
He sets up the black ball once more and walks, achingly slow, back to me until he’s standing
behind me, caressing my backside once more.
“You can do it,” he coaxes.
Oh—not when you’re distracting me like this. I push my behind back against his hand, and he
smacks me lightly.
“Eager, Miss Steele?” he murmurs.
Yes. I want you.
“Well, let’s get rid of these.” He gently slides my panties down my thighs and off. I can’t see
what he does with them, but he leaves me feeling exposed as he plants a soft kiss on each cheek.
“Take the shot, baby.”
I want to whimper, this is so not going to happen. I know I am going to miss. I line up the white,
hit it, and in my impatience, miss the black completely. I wait for the blow—but it doesn’t come.
Instead he leans right over me, flattening me against the table, takes the cue out of my hand and rolls
it to the side cushion. I can feel him, hard, against my backside.
“You missed,” he says softly in my ear. My cheek is pressed against the baize. “Put your hands
flat on the table.”
I do as he says.
“Good. I’m going to spank you now and next time, maybe you won’t.” He shifts so he’s standing
to my left side, his erection against my hip.
I groan and my heart leaps into my mouth. My breath comes in short pants and a hot, heavy
excitement courses through my veins. Gently, he caresses my behind and curls his other hand around
the nape of my neck, his fingers fisting in my hair, his elbow at my back, holding me down. I am
completely helpless.
“Open your legs,” he murmurs and for a moment, I hesitate. And he smacks me hard—with the
ruler! The noise is harsher than the sting, and it takes me by surprise. I gasp, and he hits me again.
“Legs,” he orders. I open my legs, panting. The ruler strikes again. Ow—it stings, but its crack
across my skin sounds worse than it feels.
I close my eyes and absorb the pain. It’s not too bad, and Christian’s breathing becomes harsher.
He hits me again and again, and I moan. I am not sure how many more strokes I can bear—but hearinghim, knowing how turned on he is, feeds my arousal and my willingness to continue. I am crossing to
the dark side, a place in my psyche I don’t know well but have visited before in the playroom—with
the Tallis. The ruler strikes once more, and I moan loudly, and Christian groans in response. He hits
me again—and again... and once more... harder this time—and I wince.
“Stop.” The word is out of my mouth before I’m even aware that I’ve said it. Christian drops the
ruler immediately and releases me.
“Enough?” he whispers.
“Yes.”
“I want to fuck you now,” he says, his voice strained.
“Yes,” I murmur with longing. He undoes his fly, as I lie panting on the table, knowing that he’s
going to be rough.
I marvel once more at how I have managed—and yes, enjoyed— what he’s done to me up to this
point. It’s so dark but so him.
He eases two fingers inside me and moves them in a circular motion. The feeling is exquisite.
Closing my eyes, I revel in the sensation. I hear the telltale rip of foil, then he’s standing behind me,
between my legs, pushing them wider.
Slowly he sinks into me, filling me. I hear his groan of pure pleasure, and it stirs my soul. He
grasps my hips firmly, eases out of me again, and this time slams back into me, causing me to cry out.
He stills for a moment.
“Again?” he asks softly.
“Yes... I’m fine. Lose yourself... take me with you,” I murmur breathlessly.
He moans low in his throat, eases out of me once more, then slams into me, and repeats this over
and over slowly, deliberately—a punishing, brutal, heavenly rhythm.
Oh fucking my... My insides begin to quicken. He feels it, too, and increases the rhythm, pushing
me, higher, harder, faster—and I surrender, exploding around him—a draining, soul-grabbing orgasm
that leaves me spent and exhausted.
I’m vaguely aware that Christian, too, is letting go, calling my name, his fingers digging into my
hips, and then he stills and collapses on me. We sink to the floor, and he cradles me in his arms.
“Thank you, baby,” he breathes, covering my upturned face in soft feather-light kisses. I open my
eyes and gaze up at him, and he wraps his arms tighter around me.
“Your cheek is pink from the baize,” he murmurs, rubbing my face tenderly. “How was that?”
His eyes are wide and cautious.
“Teeth-clenchingly good,” I mutter. “I like it rough, Christian, and I like it gentle, too. I like that
it’s with you.”
He closes his eyes and hugs me even tighter.
Jeez, I’m tired.
“You never fail, Ana. You are beautiful, bright, challenging, fun, sexy, and I thank divine
providence every day that it was you that came to interview me and not Katherine Kavanagh.” He
kisses my hair. I smile and yawn against his chest. “I’m wearing you out,” he continues. “Come. Bath,
then bed.”
We are both in Christian’s bath, facing each other chin-deep in foam, the sweet scent of jasmine
enveloping us. Christian is massaging my feet, one at a time. It feels so good it should be illegal.
“Can I ask you something?” I murmur.“Of course. Anything, Ana, you know that.”
I take a deep breath and sit up, flinching only slightly.
“Tomorrow—when I go to work—can Sawyer just deliver me to the front door of the office then
pick me up at the end of the day? Please, Christian. Please,” I plead.
His hands still as his brow creases. “I thought we agreed,” he grumbles.
“Please,” I beg.
“What about lunchtime?”
“I’ll make myself something to take from here so I don’t have to go out, please.”
He kisses my instep. “I find it very difficult to say no to you,” he mutters as if he senses this is a
failing on his part. “You won’t go out?”
“No.”
“Okay.”
I beam at him. “Thank you.” I lean up onto my knees, sloshing water everywhere, and kiss him.
“You’re most welcome, Miss Steele. How’s your behind?”
“Sore. But not too bad. The water is soothing.”
“I’m glad you told me to stop,” he says, gazing at me.
“So is my behind.”
He grins.
I stretch out in bed, so tired. It’s only ten thirty, but it feels like three in the morning. This has to be
one of the most exhausting weekends of my life.
“Didn’t Ms. Acton provide any nightwear?” Christian asks, his voice laced with disapproval as he
stares down at me.
“I have no idea. I like wearing your T-shirts,” I mumble sleepily.
His face softens, and he leans over and kisses my forehead.
“I need to work. But I don’t want to leave you alone. Can I use your laptop to log in to the office?
Will I disturb you if I work from here?”
“S’not my laptop.” I drift.
The alarm clicks on, startling me awake with the traffic news. Christian is still asleep beside me.
Rubbing my eyes, I glance at the clock. Six thirty—too early.
It’s raining outside for the first time in ages, and the light is muted and mellow. I’m cozy and
comfortable in this vast modern monolith with Christian at my side. I stretch and turn to the delicious
man beside me. His eyes spring open and he blinks sleepily.
“Good morning.” I smile and caress his face, leaning down to kiss him.
“Good morning, baby. I usually wake before the alarm goes off,” he murmurs in wonder.
“It’s set so early.”
“That it is, Miss Steele.” Christian grins. “I have to get up.” He kisses me, and then he’s up and
out of bed. I flop back against the pillows. Wow, waking up on a school day next to Christian Grey.
How did this all happen? I close my eyes and doze.
“Come on, sleepyhead, get up.” Christian leans over me. He’s shaved, clean, fresh—Hmm, he
smells so good—in a crisp white shirt and black suit, no tie—the CEO is back. Holy Moses, he looksgood like this, too.
“What?” he asks.
“I wish you’d come back to bed.”
His lips part, surprised by my come-on, and he smiles almost shyly. “You are insatiable, Miss
Steele. As much as that idea appeals, I have an eight thirty meeting, so I have to go shortly.”
Oh, I’ve slept for another hour or so. Shit. I leap out of bed, much to Christian’s amusement.
I shower and dress quickly, wearing the clothes I set out yesterday: a fitted, gray pencil skirt; pale-
gray silk shirt; and high-heeled black pumps, all care of my new wardrobe. I brush my hair and
carefully put it up, then wander out to the great room, not really knowing what to expect. How am I
going to get to work?
Christian is sipping coffee at the breakfast bar. Mrs. Jones is in the kitchen making pancakes and
bacon.
“You look lovely,” Christian murmurs. Wrapping an arm around me, he kisses me under my ear.
Out of the corner of my eye, I catch Mrs. Jones’s smile. I flush.
“Good morning, Miss Steele,” she says as she places pancakes and bacon in front of me.
“Oh, thank you. Good morning,” I mumble. Jeez—I could get used to this.
“Mr. Grey says you’d like to take lunch with you to work. What would you like to eat?”
I glance at Christian, who is trying very hard not to smirk. I narrow my eyes at him.
“A sandwich... salad. I really don’t mind.” I beam at Mrs. Jones.
“I’ll rustle up a packed lunch for you, ma’am.”
“Please, Mrs. Jones, call me Ana.”
“Ana.” She smiles and turns to make me tea.
Wow... this is so cool.
I turn and cock my head at Christian, challenging him—go on, accuse me of flirting with Mrs.
Jones.
“I have to go, baby. Taylor will come back and drop you at work with Sawyer.”
“Only to the door.”
“Yes. Only to the door.” Christian rolls his eyes. “Be careful, though.”
I glance around and spy Taylor standing in the entranceway. Christian stands and kisses me,
grasping my chin.
“Laters, baby.”
“Have a good day at the office, dear,” I call after him. He turns and flashes me his beautiful smile
then he’s gone. Mrs. Jones hands me a cup of tea, and suddenly I feel awkward with just the two of us
here.
“How long have you worked for Christian?” I ask, thinking I ought to make some kind of
conversation.
“Four years or so,” she says pleasantly, as she sets about making my packed lunch.
“You know, I can do that,” I mutter, embarrassed that she should be doing this for me.
“You eat your breakfast, Ana. This is what I do. I enjoy it. It’s nice to look after someone other
than Mr. Taylor and Mr. Grey.” She smiles very sweetly at me.
My cheeks pink with pleasure, and I want to bombard this woman with questions. She must know
so much about Fifty, and although her manner is warm and friendly, it’s also very professional. I know
I’ll only embarrass both of us if I start quizzing her, so I finish my breakfast in a reasonablycomfortable silence, punctuated only by her questions on my food preferences for lunch.
Twenty-five minutes later Sawyer appears at the entrance to the great room. I have brushed my
teeth, and I’m waiting to go. Clutching my brown paper lunch bag—I can’t even remember my mom
doing this for me—Sawyer and I head to the first floor via the elevator. He’s very taciturn, too, giving
nothing away. Taylor is waiting in the Audi, and I climb into the rear passenger seat when Sawyer
opens the door.
“Good morning, Taylor,” I say brightly.
“Miss Steele.” He smiles.
“Taylor, I’m sorry about yesterday and my inappropriate remarks. I hope I didn’t get you into
trouble.”
Taylor frowns in bemusement at me from the rearview mirror as he pulls out into the Seattle
traffic.
“Miss Steele, I’m rarely in trouble,” he says reassuringly.
Oh good. Maybe Christian didn’t tell him off. Just me, then, I think sourly.
“I’m glad to hear it, Taylor.” I smile.
Jack gazes at me, assessing my appearance, as I make my way to my desk.
“Morning, Ana. Good weekend?”
“Yes, thanks. You?”
“It was good. Get settled in—I have work for you to do.”
I nod and sit down at my computer. It seems like years since I was at work. I switch on my
computer and fire up my e-mail program—and of course there’s an e-mail from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Boss
Date: June 13, 2011 08:24
To: Anastasia Steele
Good morning, Miss Steele
I just wanted to say thank you for a wonderful weekend in spite of all the drama.
I hope you never leave, ever.
And just to remind you that the news of SIP is embargoed for four weeks.
Delete this e-mail as soon as you’ve read it.
Yours
Christian Grey,
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc. & Your boss’s boss’s boss.
Hope I never leave? Does he want me to move in? Holy Moses... I barely know the man. I press delete.From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Bossy
Date: June 13, 2011: 09:03
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
Are you asking me to move in with you? And of course, I remembered that the evidence of your epic stalking capabilities is embargoed for another four weeks. Do I make a check out to Coping Together and send to your dad? Please don’t delete this e-
mail. Please respond to it.
ILY xxx
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
“Ana!” Jack makes me jump.
“Yes,” I flush, and Jack frowns at me.
“Everything okay?”
“Sure.” I scramble up and take my notebook into his office.
“Good. As you probably remember, I’m going to that Commissioning Fiction Symposium in New
York on Thursday. I have tickets and reservations, but I’d like you to come with me.”
“To New York?”
“Yes. We’ll need to go Wednesday and stay overnight. I think you’ll find it a very educational
experience.” His eyes darken as he says this, but his smile is polite. “Would you make the necessary
travel arrangements? And book an additional room at the hotel where I am staying? I think Sabrina,
my previous PA, left all the details handy somewhere.”
“Okay.” I smile wanly at Jack.
Crap. I wander back to my desk. This is not going to go down well with Fifty—but the fact is, I
want to go. It sounds like a real opportunity, and I’m sure I can keep Jack at arm’s length if that’s his
ulterior motive. Back at my desk there’s a response from Christian.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Me, Bossy?
Date: June 13, 2011 09:07
To: Anastasia Steele
Yes. Please.
Christian Grey,
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Jeez... he does want me to move in. Oh, Christian—it’s too soon. I put my head in my hands to try and
recover my wits. This is all I need after my extraordinary weekend. I haven’t had a moment to myself
to think through and understand all that I have experienced and discovered these last two days.From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Flynnisms
Date: June 13, 2011: 09:20
To: Christian Grey
Christian
What happened to walking before we run?
Can we talk about this tonight, please?
I’ve been asked to go to a conference in New York on Thursday.
It means an overnight stay on Wednesday.
Just thought you should know.
A x
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: WHAT?
Date: June 13, 2011 09:21
To: Anastasia Steele
Yes. Let’s talk this evening.
Are you going on your own?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: No Bold Shouty Capitals on a Monday Morning!
Date: June 13, 2011: 09:30
To: Christian Grey
Can we talk about this tonight?
A x
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: You Haven’t Seen Shouty Yet.
Date: June 13, 2011 09:35
To: Anastasia Steele
Tell me.
If it’s with the sleazeball you work with, then the answer is no, over my dead body.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.My heart sinks. Shit—it’s like he’s my dad.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: No YOU haven’t seen shouty yet.
Date: June 13, 2011 09:46
To: Christian Grey
Yes. It is with Jack.
I want to go. It’s an exciting opportunity for me.
And I have never been to New York.
Don’t get your knickers in a twist.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From: Christian Grey
Subject: No YOU haven’t seen shouty yet.
Date: June 13, 2011 09:50
To: Anastasia Steele
Anastasia
It’s not my fucking knickers I am worried about.
The answer is NO.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
“No!” I shout at my computer, causing the entire office to come to a standstill and stare at me. Jack
peers out from his office.
“Everything all right, Ana?”
“Yes. Sorry,” I mutter. “I er... just didn’t save a document.” I am scarlet with embarrassment. He
smiles at me but with a puzzled expression. I take several deep breaths and quickly type a response. I
am so mad.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Fifty Shades
Date: June 13, 2011 09:55
To: Christian Grey
Christian
You need to get a grip.
I am NOT going to sleep with Jack—not for all the tea in China.
I LOVE you. That’s what happens when people love each other.
They TRUST each other.
I don’t think you are going to SLEEP WITH, SPANK, FUCK, or WHIP anyone else. I have FAITH and TRUST in you.
Please extend the same COURTESY to me.
AnaAnastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
I sit waiting for his response. Nothing arrives. I call the airline and book a ticket for myself, ensuring I
am on the same flight as Jack. I hear the ping of new mail.
From: Lincoln, Elena
Subject: Lunch Date
Date: June 13, 2011 10:15
To: Anastasia Steele
Dear Anastasia
I would really like to have lunch with you. I think we got off on the wrong foot, and I’d like to make that right. Are you free sometime this week?
Elena Lincoln
Holy crap—not Mrs. Robinson! How the hell did she find out my e-mail address? I put my head in my
hands. Can this day get any worse?
My phone rings and wearily I lift my head from my hands and answer, glancing at the clock. It is
only ten twenty, and already I wish I hadn’t left Christian’s bed.
“Jack Hyde’s office, Ana Steele speaking.”
An achingly familiar voice snarls at me, “Will you please delete the last e-mail you sent me and
try to be a little more circumspect in the language you use in your work e-mail? I told you, the system
is monitored. I shall endeavor to do some damage limitation from here.” He hangs up.
Holy fuck... I sit staring at the phone. Christian hung up on me. That man is stomping all over my
fledgling career, and he hangs up on me? I glare at the receiver, and if it wasn’t completely inanimate,
I know it would shrivel in horror under my withering stare.
I open my e-mails and delete the one I sent him. It’s not that bad. I just mention spanking and
well, whipping. Jeez, if he’s so ashamed of it, he damn well shouldn’t do it. I pick up my Blackberry
and call his mobile.
“What?” he snaps.
“I am going to New York whether you like it or not,” I hiss.
“Don’t count—”
I hang up, cutting him off mid-sentence. Adrenaline is coursing through my body. There—that
told him. I am so mad.
I take a deep breath, trying to compose myself. Closing my eyes, I imagine that I am in my happy
place. Hmm... a boat cabin with Christian. I shake the image off as I am too mad at Fifty right now for
him to be anywhere near my happy place.
Opening my eyes, I calmly reach for my notebook and carefully run through my to do list. I take
a long, deep breath, my equilibrium restored.
“Ana!” Jack shouts, startling me. “Don’t book that flight!”“Oh, too late. I’ve done it,” I reply as he strides out of his office over to me. He looks mad.
“Look, there’s something going on. For some reason, suddenly, all travel and hotel expenses for
staff have to be approved by senior management. This has come right from the top. I am going up to
see old Roach. Apparently, a moratorium on all spending has just been implemented. I don’t
understand it.” Jack pinches the bridge of his nose and closes his eyes.
Most of the blood drains from my face and knots form in my stomach. Fifty!
“Take my calls. I’ll go see what Roach has to say.” He winks at me and strides off to see his boss
—not the boss’s boss.
Damn it. Christian Grey... My blood starts to boil again.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:What have you done?
Date:June 13, 2011 10:43
To:Christian Grey
Please tell me you won’t interfere with my work.
I really want to go to this conference.
I shouldn’t have to ask you.
I have deleted the offending e-mail.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:What have you done?
Date:June 13, 2011 10:46
To:Anastasia Steele
I am just protecting what is mine.
The e-mail that you so rashly sent is wiped from the SIP server now, as are my e-mails to you.
Incidentally, I trust you implicitly. It’s him I don’t trust.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I check to see if I still have his e-mails, and they have disappeared. This man’s influence knows no
bounds. How does he do this? Who does he know that can stealthily delve into the depths of SIP’s
servers and remove e-mails? I am so out of my league here.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Grown Up
Date:June 13, 2011 10:43
To:Christian Grey
Christian
I don’t need protecting from my own boss.
He may make a pass at me, but I shall say no.
You cannot interfere. It’s wrong and controlling on so many levels.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIPFrom:Christian Grey
Subject:The Answer is NO
Date:June 13, 2011 10.50
To:Anastasia Steele
Ana
I have seen how “effective” you are at fighting off unwanted attention. I remember that’s how I had the pleasure of spending my first night with you. At least the photographer has feelings for you. The sleazeball, on the other hand, does not. He is a serial
philanderer, and he will try to seduce you. Ask him what happened to his previous PA and the one before that.
I don’t want to fight about this.
If you want to go to New York, I’ll take you. We can go this weekend. I have an apartment there.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh, Christian! That’s not the point. He’s so damn frustrating. And of course he has an apartment
there. Where else does he own property? Trust him to bring up José. Will I ever live that down? I was
drunk, for heaven’s sake. I wouldn’t get drunk with Jack.
I shake my head at the screen, but figure I cannot continue to argue with him over e-mail. I shall
have to bide my time until this evening. I check the clock. Jack is still not back from his meeting with
Jerry, and I need to deal with Elena. I read her e-mail again and decide that the best way to handle it is
to send it to Christian. Let him concentrate on her rather than me.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:FW Lunch date or Irritating Baggage
Date:June 13, 2011 11:15
To:Christian Grey
Christian
While you have been busy interfering in my career and saving your ass from my careless missives, I received the following e-mail from Mrs. Lincoln. I really don’t want to meet with her—even if I did, I am not allowed to leave this building. How she got
hold of my e-mail address, I don’t know. What would you suggest I do? Her e-mail is below:
Dear Anastasia, I would really like to have lunch with you. I think we got off on the wrong foot, and I’d like to make that right. Are you free sometime this week?
Elena Lincoln
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Irritating Baggage
Date:June 13, 2011 11:23
To:Anastasia Steele
Don’t be mad at me. I have your best interests at heart.
If anything happened to you, I would never forgive myself.
I’ll deal with Mrs. Lincoln.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Laters
Date:June 13, 2011: 11:32
To:Christian Grey
Can we please discuss this tonight?
I am trying to work, and your continued interference is very distracting.
Anastasia SteeleAssistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
Jack returns after midday and tells me that New York is off for me though he is still going and there’s
nothing he can do to change senior management policy. He strides into his office, slamming the door,
obviously furious. Why is he so angry?
Deep down, I know his intentions are less than honorable, but I am sure I can deal with him, and I
wonder what Christian knows about Jack’s previous PAs. I park these thoughts and continue with
some work, but resolve to try to make Christian change his mind, though the prospects are bleak.
At one o’clock, Jack pokes his head out of the office door.
“Ana, please could you go and get me some lunch?”
“Sure. What would you like?”
“Pastrami on rye, hold the mustard. I’ll give you the money when you’re back.”
“Anything to drink?”
“Coke, please. Thanks, Ana.” He heads back into his office as I reach for my purse.
Crap. I promised Christian I wouldn’t go out. I sigh. He’ll never know, and I’ll be quick.
Claire from reception offers me her umbrella since it is still pouring with rain. As I head out of
the front doors, I pull my jacket around me and take a furtive glance in both directions from beneath
the overlarge golf umbrella. Nothing seems amiss. There’s no sign of Ghost Girl.
I march briskly, and I hope inconspicuously, down the block to the deli. However, the closer I get
to the deli, the more I have a creepy sense that I am being watched, and I don’t know if it’s my
heightened feeling of paranoia or a reality. Shit. I hope it’s not Leila with a gun.
It’s just your imagination, my subconscious snaps. Who the hell would want to shoot you?
Within fifteen minutes, I am back—safe, sound but relieved. I think Christian’s extreme paranoia
and his overprotective vigilance is beginning to get to me.
As I take Jack’s lunch in to him, he glances up from the phone.
“Ana, thanks. Since you’re not coming with me, I’m going to need you to work late. We need to
get these briefs ready. Hope you don’t have plans.” He smiles up at me warmly, and I flush.
“No, that’s fine,” I say with a bright smile and a sinking heart. This is not going to go down well.
Christian will freak, I’m sure.
As I head back to my desk I decide not to tell him immediately, otherwise he might have time to
interfere in some way. I sit and eat the chicken salad sandwich Mrs. Jones made for me. It’s delicious.
She makes a mean sandwich.
Of course, if I moved in with Christian, she would make lunch for me every weekday. The idea is
unsettling. I have never had dreams of obscene wealth and all the trappings—only love. To find
someone who loves me and doesn’t try to control my every move. The phone rings.
“Jack Hyde’s office—”
“You assured me you wouldn’t go out,” Christian interrupts me, his voice cold and hard.
My heart sinks for the millionth time this day. Shit. How the hell does he know?
“Jack sent me out for some lunch. I couldn’t say no. Are you having me watched?” My scalp
prickles at the notion. No wonder I felt so paranoid—someonewaswatching me. The thought makes
me angry.
“This is why I didn’t want you going back to work,” Christian snaps.
“Christian, please. You’re being”—So Fifty—“so suffocating.”
“Suffocating?” he whispers, surprised.
“Yes. You have to stop this. I’ll talk to you this evening. Unfortunately, I have to work latebecause I can’t go to New York.”
“Anastasia, I don’t want to suffocate you,” he says quietly, appalled.
“Well, you are. I have work to do. I’ll talk to you later.” I hang up, feeling drained and vaguely
depressed.
After our wonderful weekend, the reality is hitting home. I have never felt more like running.
Running to some quiet retreat so I can think about this man, about how he is, and about how to deal
with him. On one level, I know he’s broken—I can see that clearly now—and it’s both heartbreaking
and exhausting. From the small pieces of precious information that he’s given me about his life, I
understand why. An unloved child; a hideously abusive environment; a mother who couldn’t protect
him, whom he couldn’t protect, and who died in front of him.
I shudder. My poor Fifty. I am his, but not to be kept in some gilded cage. How am I going to
make him see this?
With a heavy heart, I drag one of the manuscripts Jack wants me to summarize into my lap and
continue to read. I can think of no easy solution to Christian’s fucked-up control issues. I will just
have to talk to him later, face to face.
Half an hour later, Jack e-mails me a document that I need to tidy up and polish, ready for
printing tomorrow in time for his conference. It will take me not just the rest of the afternoon but well
into the evening, too. I set to work.
When I look up, it’s after seven and the office is deserted, though the light in Jack’s office is still
on. I hadn’t noticed everyone leaving, but I am nearly finished. I e-mail the document back to Jack for
his approval and check my inbox. There’s nothing new from Christian, so I quickly glance at my
Blackberry, and it startles me by buzzing—it’s Christian.
“Hi,” I murmur.
“Hi, when will you be finished?”
“By seven thirty, I think.”
“I’ll meet you outside.”
“Okay.”
He sounds quiet, nervous even. Why? Wary of my reaction?
“I’m still mad at you, but that’s all,” I whisper. “We have a lot to talk about.”
“I know. See you at seven thirty.”
Jack comes out of his office.
“I have to go. See you later.” I hang up.
I look up at Jack as he strolls casually toward me.
“I just need a couple of tweaks. I’ve e-mailed the brief back to you.”
He leans over me while I retrieve the document, rather close—uncomfortably close. His arm
brushes mine. Accidentally? I flinch, but he pretends not to notice. His other arm rests on the back of
my chair, touching my back. I sit up so I’m not leaning against the backrest.
“Pages sixteen and twenty-three, and that should be it,” he murmurs, his mouth inches from my
ear.
My skin crawls at his proximity, but I choose to ignore it. Opening the document, I shakily start
on the changes. He’s still leaning over me, and all my senses are hyperaware. It’s distracting and
awkward, and inside I am screaming, Back off!
“Once this is done, it’ll be good to go to print. You can organize that tomorrow. Thank you for
staying late and doing this, Ana.” His voice is smooth, gentle, like he’s talking to a wounded animal.
My stomach twists.
“I think the least I could do is reward you with a quick drink. You deserve one.” He tucks a strand
of my hair that’s come loose from my hair tie behind my ear and gently caresses the lobe.I cringe gritting my teeth, and I jerk my head away. Shit! Christian was right. Don’t touch me.
“Actually, I can’t this evening.” Or any other evening, Jack.
“Just a quick one?” he coaxes.
“No, I can’t. But thank you.”
Jack sits on the end of my desk and frowns. Alarm bells sound loudly in my head. I am on my
own in the office. I cannot leave. I glance nervously at the clock. Another five minutes before
Christian is due.
“Ana, I think we make a great team. I’m sorry that I couldn’t pull off this New York trip. It won’t
be the same without you.”
I’m sure it won’t. I smile weakly up at him, because I can’t think of what to say. And for the first
time all day, I feel the tiniest hint of relief that I am not going.
“So, did you have a good weekend?” he asks smoothly.
“Yes, thanks.” Where is he going with this?
“See your boyfriend?”
“Yes.”
“What does he do?”
Owns your ass... “He’s in business.”
“That’s interesting. What kind of business?”
“Oh, he has his fingers in all sorts of pies.”
Jack cocks his head to one side as he leans in toward me, invading my personal space—again.
“You’re being very coy, Ana.”
“Well, he’s in telecommunications, manufacturing, and agriculture.”
Jack raises his eyebrows. “So many things. Who does he work for?”
“He works for himself. If you’re happy with the document, I’d like to go, if that’s okay?”
He leans back. My personal space is safe again.
“Of course. Sorry, I didn’t mean to keep you,” he says disingenuously.
“What time does the building close?”
“Security is here until eleven.”
“Good.” I smile, and my subconscious flops down in her armchair, relieved to know that we are
not alone in the building. Switching off my computer, I grab my purse and stand up, ready to leave.
“You like him then? Your boyfriend?”
“I love him,” I answer, looking Jack squarely in the eye.
“I see.” Jack frowns and he stands up from my desk. “What’s his surname?”
I flush.
“Grey. Christian Grey,” I mumble.
Jack’s mouth drops open. “Seattle’s richest bachelor? That Christian Grey?”
“Yes. The same.” Yes, that Christian Grey, your future boss who will have you for breakfast if
you invade my personal space again.
“I thought he looked familiar,” Jack says darkly and his brow creases again. “Well, he’s a lucky
man.”
I blink at him. What do I say to that?
“Have a good evening, Ana.” Jack smiles, but the smile doesn’t touch his eyes, and he walks
stiffly back into his office without a backward glance.
I let out a long sigh of relief. Well, that problem might be solved. Fifty works his magic again.
Just his name is my talisman, and it has this man retreating with his tail between his legs. I allow
myself a small victorious smile. You see, Christian? Even your name protects me—you didn’t have togo to all that trouble of clamping down on expenses. I tidy my desk and check my watch. Christian
should be outside.
The Audi is parked up against the sidewalk, and Taylor leaps out to open the rear passenger door.
I have never been so pleased to see him, and I scramble into the car out of the rain.
Christian is in the rear seat, gazing at me, his eyes wide and wary. He’s bracing himself for my
anger, his jaw tight and tense.
“Hi,” I murmur.
“Hi,” he replies cautiously. He reaches over and grasps my hand, squeezing it tightly, and my
heart thaws a little. I’m so confused. I haven’t even worked out what I need to say to him.
“Are you still mad?” he asks.
“I don’t know,” I murmur. He raises my hand and lightly grazes my knuckles with soft butterfly
kisses.
“It’s been a shitty day,” he says.
“Yes, it has.” But for the first time since he left for work this morning, I begin to relax. Just being
in his company is a soothing balm, and all the shit from Jack, and the snarky e-mails to and fro, and
the nuisance that is Elena fade into the background. It’s just me and my control freak in the back of
the car.
“It’s better now that you’re here,” he murmurs. We sit in silence as Taylor weaves through the
evening traffic, both of us brooding and contemplative; but I feel Christian slowly unwind beside me
as he, too, relaxes, gently running his thumb across my knuckles in a soft, soothing rhythm.
Taylor drops us outside the apartment building, and we both duck inside, out of the rain.
Christian clasps my hand as we wait for the elevator, his eyes scanning the front of the building.
“I take it you haven’t found Leila yet.”
“No. Welch is still looking for her,” he mutters despondently.
The elevator arrives and in we step. Christian glances down at me, his gray eyes unreadable. Oh,
he just looks glorious—tousled hair, white shirt, dark suit. And suddenly it’s there, from nowhere, that
feeling. Oh my—the longing, the lust, the electricity. If it were visible, it would be an intense blue
aura around and between us it’s so strong. His lips part as he gazes at me.
“Do you feel it?” he breathes.
“Yes.”
“Oh, Ana.” He groans and he grabs me, his arms snaking around me, one hand at the nape of my
neck, tipping my head back as his lips find mine. My fingers are in his hair and caressing his cheek as
he pushes me back against the elevator wall.
“I hate arguing with you,” he breathes against my mouth, and there’s a desperate, passionate
quality to his kiss that mirrors mine. Desire explodes in my body, all the tension of the day seeking an
outlet, straining against him, seeking more. We’re all tongues and breathing and hands and touch and
sweet, sweet sensation. His hand is on my hip, and abruptly he’s pulling up my skirt, his fingers
stroking my thighs.
“Sweet Jesus, you’re wearing stockings.” He moans in appreciative awe as his thumb caresses the
flesh above my stocking line. “I want to see this,” he breathes, and he pulls my skirt right up, exposing
the tops of my thighs.
Stepping back, he reaches over to press the stop button, and the elevator coasts smoothly to a halt
between the twenty-second and twenty-third floors. His eyes are dark, lips parted, and he’s breathing
as hard as am I. We gaze at each other, not touching. I am grateful for the wall against my back,
holding me up while I bask in this beautiful man’s sensual, carnal appraisal.
“Take your hair down,” he orders, his voice husky. I reach up and undo the tie, releasing my hair
so it tumbles in a thick cloud around my shoulders to my breasts. “Undo the top two buttons of yourshirt,” he whispers, his eyes wilder now.
He makes me feel so wanton. My inner goddess is writhing on her chaise longue, waiting,
wanting, and panting. I reach up and undo each button, achingly, slowly, so that the tops of my breasts
are tantalizingly revealed.
He swallows. “Do you have any idea how alluring you look right now?”
Very deliberately, I bite my lip and shake my head. He closes his eyes briefly, and when he opens
them again, they are blazing. He steps forward and places his hands on the elevator walls on either
side of my face. He’s as close as he can be without touching me.
I tip my face up to meet his gaze, and he leans down and runs his nose against mine, so it’s the
only contact between us. I am so hot in the confines of this elevator with him. I want him—now.
“I think you do, Miss Steele. I think you like to drive me wild.”
“Do I drive you wild?” I whisper.
“In all things, Anastasia. You are a siren, a goddess.” And he reaches for me, grasping my leg
above my knee and hitching it around his waist, so that I am standing on one leg, leaning into him. I
feel him against me, feel him hard and wanting above the apex of my thighs as he runs his lips down
my throat. I moan and wrap my arms around his neck.
“I’m going to take you now, Anastasia,” he breathes and I arch my back in response, pressing
myself against him, eager for the friction. He groans deep and low in the back of his throat and boosts
me higher as he undoes his fly.
“Hold tight, baby,” he murmurs, and magically produces a foil packet that he holds in front of my
mouth. I take it between my teeth, and he tugs, so that between us, we rip it open.
“Good girl.” He steps back a fraction as he slides on the condom. “God, I can’t wait for the next
six days,” he growls and gazes down at me through hooded eyes. “I do hope you’re not overly fond of
these panties.” He tears through them with his adept fingers, and they disintegrate in his hands. My
blood is pounding through my veins. I am panting with need.
His words are intoxicating, all my angst from the day forgotten. It’s just him and me, doing what
we do best. Without taking his eyes off mine, he sinks slowly into me. My body bows and I tilt my
head back, closing my eyes, relishing the feel of him inside me. He pulls back and then moves into me
again, so slow, so sweet. I groan.
“You’re mine, Anastasia,” he murmurs against my throat.
“Yes. Yours. When will you accept that?” I pant. He groans and starts to move, really move. And
I surrender myself to his relentless rhythm, savoring each push and pull, his ragged breathing, his need
for me, reflecting mine.
It makes me feel powerful, strong, desired and loved—loved by this captivating, complicated
man, whom I love in return with all my heart. He pushes harder and harder, his breathing ragged,
losing himself in me as I lose myself in him.
“Oh, baby,” Christian moans, his teeth grazing my jaw, and I come hard around him. He stills,
clutches me, and follows suit, whispering my name.
Now that Christian is spent, calm and kissing me gently, his breathing eases. He holds me upright
against the elevator wall, our foreheads pressed together, and my body is like jelly, weak but
gratifyingly sated from my climax.
“Oh, Ana,” he murmurs. “I need you so much.” He kisses my forehead.
“And I you, Christian.”Releasing me, he straightens my skirt and does up the two buttons on my shirt, then punches the
combination into the keypad that starts the elevator again. It rises with a jolt so that I reach out and
clasp his arms.
“Taylor will be wondering where we are,” he grins lasciviously at me.
Oh crap. I drag my fingers through my hair in a vain attempt to combat the just-fucked look, then
give up and tie it in a ponytail.
“You’ll do.” Christian smirks as he does up his fly and puts the condom in his pants pocket.
Once more he looks the embodiment of an American entrepreneur, and since his hair looks just
fucked most of the time, there’s very little difference. Except now he’s smiling, relaxed, his eyes
crinkling with boyish charm. Are all men this easily placated?
Taylor is waiting when the doors open.
“Problem with the elevator,” Christian murmurs as we both step out, and I cannot look either of
them in the face. I scurry through the double doors to Christian’s bedroom in search of some fresh
underwear.
When I return, Christian has removed his jacket and is sitting at the breakfast bar chatting with Mrs.
Jones. She smiles kindly at me as she puts out two plates of hot food for us. Mmm, it smells delicious
—coq au vin, if I am not mistaken. I am famished.
“Enjoy, Mr. Grey, Ana,” she says and leaves us to it.
Christian fetches a bottle of white wine from the fridge, and as we sit and eat, he tells me about
how much nearer he’s getting to perfecting a solar-powered mobile phone. He’s animated and excited
about the whole project, and I know then that he hasn’t had an entirely shitty day.
I ask him about his properties. He smirks, and it turns out he only has the apartment in New York
and Aspen, and Escala. Nothing else. When we’re done, I collect his plate and mine and take them to
sink.
“Leave that. Gail will do it,” he says. I turn and gaze at him, and he’s watching me intently. Will
I ever get used to having someone clean up after me?
“Well, now that you are more docile, Miss Steele, shall we talk about today?”
“I think you’re the one who’s more docile. I think I’m doing a good job in taming you.”
“Taming me?” he snorts, amused. When I nod, he frowns as if reflecting on my words. “Yes.
Maybe you are, Anastasia.”
“You were right about Jack,” I murmur, serious now, and I lean across the kitchen island gauging
his reaction. Christian’s face falls and his eyes harden.
“Has he tried anything?” he whispers, his voice deathly cold.
I shake my head to reassure him. “No, and he won’t, Christian. I told him today that I’m your
girlfriend, and he backed right off.”
“You’re sure? I could fire the fucker.” Christian scowls.
I sigh, emboldened by my glass of wine. “You really have to let me fight my own battles. You
can’t constantly second-guess me and try to protect me. It’s stifling, Christian. I’ll never flourish with
your incessant interference. I need some freedom. I wouldn’t dream of meddling in your affairs.”
He blinks at me. “I only want you safe, Anastasia. If anything happened to you, I—” He stops.
“I know, and I understand why you feel so driven to protect me. And part of me loves it. I know
that if I need you, you’ll be there, as I am for you. But if we are to have any hope of a future together,
you have to trust me and trust my judgment. Yes, I’ll get it wrong sometimes—I’ll make mistakes, butI have to learn.”
He stares at me, his expression anxious, spurring me to walk round to him so that I am standing
between his legs while he sits on the barstool. Grabbing his hands, I put them around me and place my
hands on his arms.
“You can’t interfere in my job. It’s wrong. I don’t need you charging in like a white knight to
save the day. I know you want to control everything, and I understand why, but you can’t. It’s an
impossible goal... you have to learn to let go.” I reach up and stroke his face as he gazes at me, his
eyes wide. “And if you can do that—give me that—I’ll move in with you,” I add softly.
He inhales sharply, surprised. “You’d do that?” he whispers.
“Yes.”
“But you don’t know me.” He frowns and sounds choked and panicky all of a sudden, very un-
Fifty.
“I know you well enough, Christian. Nothing you tell me about yourself will frighten me away.” I
gently run my knuckles across his cheek. His expression turns from anxious to dubious. “But if you
could just ease up on me,” I plead.
“I’m trying, Anastasia. I couldn’t just stand by and let you go to New York with that... sleazeball.
He has an alarming reputation. None of his assistants have lasted more than three months, and they’re
never retained by the company. I don’t want that for you, baby.” He sighs. “I don’t want anything to
happen to you. You being hurt... the thought fills me with dread. I can’t promise not to interfere, not if
I think you’ll come to harm.” He pauses and takes a deep breath. “I love you, Anastasia. I will do
everything in my power to protect you. I cannot imagine my life without you.”
Holy cow. My inner goddess, my subconscious, and I all gape at Fifty in shock.
Jeez, three little words. My world stands still, tilts, then spins on a new axis; and I savor the
moment, gazing into his sincere, beautiful gray eyes.
“I love you, too, Christian.” I lean over and kiss him, and the kiss deepens.
Entering unseen, Taylor clears his throat. Christian pulls back, gazing intently at me. He stands,
his arm around my waist.
“Yes?” he snaps at Taylor.
“Mrs. Lincoln is on her way up, sir.”
“What?”
Taylor shrugs apologetically. Christian sighs heavily and shakes his head.
“Well, this should be interesting,” he mutters and gives me a crooked grin of resignation.
Fuck! Why can’t that damned woman leave us alone?“Did you talk to her today?” I ask Christian as we wait forMrs. Robinson’s arrival.
“Yes.”
“What did you say?”
“I said that you didn’t want to see her, and that I understood your reasons why. I also told her that
I didn’t appreciate her going behind my back.” His gaze is impassive, giving nothing away.
Oh, good. “What did she say?”
“She brushed it off in a way that only Elena can.” His mouth flattens to a crooked line.
“Why do you think she’s here?”
“I have no idea.” Christian shrugs.
Taylor enters the great room again. “Mrs. Lincoln,” he announces.
And here she is... Why is she so damned attractive? She’s dressed entirely in black: tight jeans, a
shirt that emphasizes her perfect figure, and a halo of bright, glossy hair.
Christian pulls me close. “Elena,” he says, his tone puzzled.
She gapes at me in shock, frozen to the spot. She blinks before finding her soft voice. “I’m sorry.
I didn’t realize you had company, Christian. It’s Monday,” she says as if this explains why she’s here.
“Girlfriend,” he says by way of explanation and tilts his head to one side and smirks.
She smiles, a slow, beaming smile directed entirely at him. It’s unnerving.
“Of course. Hello, Anastasia. I didn’t know you’d be here. I know you don’t want to talk to me. I
accept that.”
“Do you?” I assert quietly, gazing at her and taking all of us by surprise. With a slight frown, she
moves farther into the room.
“Yes, I get the message. I’m not here to see you. Like I said, Christian rarely has company during
the week.” She pauses. “I have a problem, and I need to talk to Christian about it.”
“Oh?” Christian straightens up. “Do you want a drink?”
“Yes, please,” she murmurs gratefully.
Christian fetches a glass while Elena and I stand awkwardly gazing at each other. She fidgets
with a large silver ring on her middle finger, while I don’t know where to look. Finally, she gives me a
small tight smile and approaches the kitchen island and sits on the bar stool at the end. She obviously
knows the place well and feels comfortable moving around here.Do I stay? Do I go? Oh, this is so difficult. My subconscious scowls at the woman with her most
hostile harpy face.
There’s so much I want to say to this woman, and none of it complimentary. But she’s
Christian’sfriend—his only friend—and for all my loathing of this woman, I am innately polite.
Deciding to stay, I sit as gracefully as I can manage on the stool Christian’s vacated. Christian pours
wine into each of our glasses and sits between us at the breakfast bar. Can’t he feel how weird this is?
“What’s up?” he asks her.
Elena looks nervously at me, and Christian reaches over and clasps my hand.
“Anastasia’s with me now,” he says to her silent query and squeezes my hand. I flush, and my
subconscious beams at him, harpy face forgotten.
Elena’s face softens as if she’s pleased for him. Really pleased for him. Oh, I don’t understand
this woman at all, and I’m uncomfortable and edgy in her presence.
She takes a deep breath and shifts, perching on the edge of her bar stool and looking agitated. She
glances nervously down at her hands and starts manically twisting the large silver ring around and
around on her middle finger.
Jeez, what’s wrong with her? Is it my presence? Do I have that effect on her? Because I feel the
same way—I don’t want her here. She raises her head and looks Christian squarely in the eye.
“I’m being blackmailed.”
Holy shit. Not what I expected out of her mouth. Christian stiffens. Has someone found out about
her penchant for beating and fucking underage boys? I suppress my revulsion, and a fleeting thought
about chickens coming home to roost crosses my mind. My subconscious rubs her hands together with
ill-disguised glee. Good.
“How?” Christian asks, his horror clear in his voice.
She reaches into her oversized, patent-leather, designer purse, pulls out a note, and hands it to
him.
“Put it down, lay it out.” Christian points to the breakfast bar counter with his chin.
“You don’t want to touch it?’
“No. Fingerprints.”
“Christian, you know I can’t go to the police with this.”
Why am I listening to this? Is she fucking some other poor boy?
She lays the note out for him, and he bends to read it.
“They’re only asking for five thousand dollars,” he says almost absentmindedly. “Any idea who
it might be? Someone in the community?”
“No,” she says in her soft sweet voice.
“Linc?”
Linc? Who’s that?
“What—after all this time? I don’t think so,” she grumbles.
“Does Isaac know?”
“I haven’t told him.”
Who’s Isaac?
“I think he needs to know,” Christian says. She shakes her head, and now I feel I’m intruding. I
want none of this. I try to retrieve my hand from Christian’s grasp, but he just tightens his hold and
turns to gaze at me.
“What?” he asks.
“I’m tired. I think I’ll go to bed.”
His eyes search mine, looking forwhat? Censure? Acceptance? Hostility? I keep my expression asbland as possible.
“Okay,” he says. “I won’t be long.”
He releases me and I stand. Elena watches me warily. I stay tightlipped and return her gaze,
giving nothing away.
“Goodnight, Anastasia.” She gives me a small smile.
“Goodnight,” I mutter, my voice sounds cold. I turn to leave. The tension is too much for me to
bear. As I exit the room they continue their conversation.
“I don’t think there’s a great deal I can do, Elena,” Christian says to her. “If it’s a question of
money.” His voice trails off. “I could ask Welch to investigate.”
“No, Christian, I just wanted to share,” she says.
When I am out of the room, I hear her say, “You look very happy.”
“I am,” Christian responds.
“You deserve to be.”
“I wish that were true.”
“Christian,” she scolds.
I freeze, listening intently. I can’t help it.
“Does she know how negative you are about yourself? About all your issues.”
“She knows me better than anyone.”
“Ouch! That hurts.”
“It’s the truth, Elena. I don’t have to play games with her. And I mean it, leave her alone.”
“What is her problem?”
“You... What we were. What we did. She doesn’t understand.”
“Make her understand.”
“It’s in the past, Elena, and why would I want to taint her with our fucked-up relationship? She’s
good and sweet and innocent, and by some miracle she loves me.”
“It’s no miracle, Christian,” Elena scoffs good-naturedly. “Have a little faith in yourself. You
really are quite a catch. I’ve told you often enough. And she seems lovely, too. Strong. Someone to
stand up to you.”
I can’t hear Christian’s response. So I’m strong, am I? I certainly don’t feel that way.
“Don’t you miss it?” Elena continues.
“What?”
“Your playroom.”
I stop breathing.
“That really is none of your fucking business,” Christian snaps.
Oh.
“I’msorry.” Elena snorts insincerely.
“I think you’d better go. And please, call before you come again.”
“Christian, I am sorry,” she says, and from her tone, this time she means it. “Since when are you
so sensitive?” She’s scolding him again.
“Elena, we have a business relationship which has profited us both immensely. Let’s keep it that
way. What was between us is part of the past. Anastasia is my future, and I won’t jeopardize it in any
way, so cut the fucking crap.”
His future!
“I see.”
“Look, I’m sorry for your trouble. Perhaps you should ride it out and call their bluff.” His tone is
softer.
“I don’t want to lose you, Christian.”“I’m not yours to lose, Elena,” he snaps again.
“That’s not what I meant.”
“What did you mean?” He’s brusque, angry.
“Look, I don’t want to argue with you. Your friendship means a lot to me. I’ll back off from
Anastasia. But I’m here if you need me. I always will be.”
“Anastasia thinks that you saw me last Saturday. You called, that’s all. Why did you tell her
otherwise?”
“I wanted her to know how upset you were when she left. I don’t want her to hurt you.”
“She knows. I’ve told her. Stop interfering. Honestly, you’re like a mother hen.” Christian sounds
more resigned, and Elena laughs, but there’s a sad tone to her laugh.
“I know. I’m sorry. You know I care about you. I never thought you’d end up falling in love,
Christian. It’s very gratifying to see. But I couldn’t bear it if she hurt you.”
“I’ll take my chances,” he says dryly. “Now are you sure you don’t want Welch to sniff around?”
She sighs heavily. “I suppose it wouldn’t do any harm.”
“Okay. I’ll call him in the morning.”
I listen to them bickering, trying to figure this out. They do sound like old friends, as Christian
says. Just friends. And she cares about him—maybe too much. Well, who wouldn’t, if they knew him?
“Thank you, Christian. And I am sorry. I didn’t mean to intrude. I’ll go. Next time I’ll call.”
“Good.”
She’s going! Shit! I scamper up the hallway to Christian’s bedroom and sit down on the bed.
Christian enters a few moments later.
“She’s gone,” he says warily, gauging my reaction.
I gaze up at him, trying to frame my question. “Will you tell me all about her? I am trying to
understand why you think she helped you.” I pause, thinking carefully about my next sentence. “I
loathe her, Christian. I think she did you untold damage. You have no friends. Did she keep them away
from you?”
He sighs and runs his hand through his hair.
“Why the fuck do you want to know about her? We had a very long-standing affair, she beat the
shit out of me often, and I fucked her in all sorts of ways you can’t even imagine, end of story.”
I pale. Shit, he’s angry—with me. I blink at him. “Why are you so angry?”
“Because all of that shit is over!” he shouts, glowering at me. He sighs in exasperation and shakes
his head.
I blanch. Shit. I look down at my hands, knotted in my lap. I just want to understand.
He sits down beside me. “What do you want to know?” he asks wearily.
“You don’t have to tell me. I don’t mean to intrude.”
“Anastasia, it’s not that. I don’t like talking about this shit. I’ve lived in a bubble for years with
nothing affecting me and not having to justify myself to anyone. She’s always been there as a
confidante. And now my past and my future are colliding in a way I never thought possible.”
I glance at him and he’s staring at me, his eyes wide.
“I never thought I had a future with anyone, Anastasia. You give me hope and have me thinking
about all sorts of possibilities.” He drifts off.
“I was listening,” I whisper and stare back down at my hands.
“What? To our conversation?”
“Yes.”
“Well?” He sounds resigned.
“She cares for you.”
“Yes, she does. And I for her in my own way, but it doesn’t come close to how I feel about you. Ifthat’s what this is about.”
“I’m not jealous.” I’m wounded that he would think that—or am I? Shit. Maybe that’s what this
is. “You don’t love her,” I murmur.
He sighs again. He really is pissed. “A long time ago, I thought I loved her,” he says through
gritted teeth.
Oh. “When we were in Georgia... you said you didn’t love her.”
“That’s right.”
I frown.
“I loved you then, Anastasia,” he whispers. “You’re the only person I’d fly three thousand miles
to see.”
Oh my. I don’t understand. He still wanted me as a sub then. My frown deepens.
“The feelings I have for you are very different from any I ever had for Elena,” he says by way of
explanation.
“When did you know?”
He shrugs. “Ironically, it was Elena who pointed it out to me. She encouraged me to go to
Georgia.”
I knew it! I knew it in Savannah. I gaze at him, blankly.
What do I make of this? Maybe sheison my side and just worried that I’ll hurt him. The thought
is painful. I would never want to hurt him. She’s right—he’s been hurt enough.
Perhaps she’s not so bad. I shake my head. I don’t want to accept his relationship with her. I
disapprove. Yes, that’s what this is. She’s an unsavory character who preyed on a vulnerable
adolescent, robbing him of his teenage years, no matter what he says.
“So you desired her? When you were younger.”
“Yes.”
Oh.
“She taught me a great deal. She taught me to believe in myself.”
Oh. “But she also beat the shit out of you.”
He smiles fondly. “Yes, she did.”
“And you liked that?”
“At the time I did.”
“So much that you wanted to do it to others?”
His eyes grow wide and serious. “Yes.”
“Did she help you with that?”
“Yes.”
“Did she sub for you?”
“Yes.”
Holy fuck. “Do you expect me to like her?” My voice sounds brittle and bitter.
“No. Though it would make my life a hell of a lot easier,” he says wearily. “I do understand your
reticence.”
“Reticence! Jeez, Christian—if that were your son, how would you feel?”
He blinks at me as though he doesn’t comprehend the question. He frowns. “I didn’t have to stay
with her. It was my choice, too, Anastasia,” he murmurs.
This is getting me nowhere.
“Who’s Linc?”
“Her ex-husband.”
“Lincoln Timber?”“The very same,” he smirks.
“And Isaac?”
“Her current submissive.”
Oh no.
“He’s in his mid-twenties, Anastasia. You know—a consenting adult,” he adds quickly, correctly
deciphering my look of disgust.
I flush. “Your age,” I mutter.
“Look, Anastasia, as I said to her, she’s part of my past. You are my future. Don’t let her come
between us, please. And quite frankly, I’m really bored of this subject. I’m going to do some work.”
He stands and gazes down at me. “Let it go. Please.”
I stare mulishly up at him.
“Oh, I almost forgot,” he adds. “Your car arrived a day early. It’s in the garage. Taylor has the
key.”
Whoa... the Saab? “Can I drive it tomorrow?”
“No.”
“Why not?”
“You know why not. And that reminds me. If you are going to leave your office, let me know.
Sawyer was there, watching you. It seems I can’t trust you to look after yourself at all.” He scowls
down at me, making me feel like an errant child—again. And I would argue with him, but he’s pretty
worked up over Elena, and I don’t want to push him any further, but I can’t resist one comment.
“Seems I can’t trust you either,” I mutter. “You could have told me Sawyer was watching me.”
“Do you want to fight about that, too?” he snaps.
“I wasn’t aware we were fighting. I thought we were communicating,” I mumble petulantly.
He closes his eyes briefly as he struggles to contain his temper. I swallow and watch anxiously.
Jeez, this could go either way.
“I have to work,” he says quietly, and with that, he leaves the room.
I exhale. I hadn’t realized I’d been holding my breath. I flop back onto the bed, staring at the
ceiling.
Can we ever have a normal conversation without it disintegrating into an argument? It’s
exhausting.
We just don’t know each other that well. Do I really want to move in with him? I don’t even
know if I should make him a cup of tea or coffee while he’s working. Should I disturb him at all? I
have no idea of his likes and dislikes.
Evidently he’s bored with the whole Elena thing—he’s right, I need to move on. Let it go. Well,
at least he’s not expecting me to be friends with her, and I hope that she’ll now stop hassling me for a
meeting.
I get off the bed and wander to the window. Unlocking the balcony door, I open it and stroll over
to the glass railing. Its transparency is unnerving. The air’s chilly and fresh, as I’m up so high.
I gaze out over the twinkling lights of Seattle. He’s so far removed from everything up here in his
fortress. Answerable to no one. He’d just told me he loves me, then all this crap comes up because of
that dreadful woman. I roll my eyes. His life is so complicated. He’sso complicated.
With a heavy sigh and a last glance at Seattle spread like cloths of gold at my feet, I decide to
call Ray. I haven’t spoken to him for a while. It’s a brief conversation as per usual, but I ascertain he’s
fine and that I’m interrupting an important soccer match.
“Hope all is well with Christian,” he says casually, and I know he’s fishing for information but
doesn’t really want to know.
“Yeah. We’re cool.” Sort of, and I’m moving in with him. Though we haven’t discussed atimetable.
“Love you, Dad.”
“Love you, too, Annie.”
I hang up and check my watch. It’s only ten. Because of our discussion, I am feeling strangely
innervated and restless.
I shower quickly, and back in the bedroom, decide to wear one of the nightdresses that Caroline
Acton procured for me from Neiman Marcus. Christian’s always moaning about my T-shirts. There
are three. I choose the pale pink and put it on over my head. The fabric skims across my skin,
caressing and clinging to me as it falls around my body. It feels luxurious—the finest, thinnest satin.
Holy crap. In the mirror, I look like a 1930s movie star. It’s long, elegant—and very un-me.
I grab the matching robe and decide to hunt out a book in the library. I could read on my iPad—
but right now, I want the comfort and reassurance of a physical book. I’ll leave Christian alone.
Perhaps he’ll recover his good humor once he’s finished working.
There are so many books in Christian’s library. Scanning every title will take forever. I glance
occasionally at the billiard table and flush as I recall our previous evening. I smile when I see that the
ruler is still on the floor. Picking it up, I swat my palm. Ow! It stings.
Why can’t I take a little more pain for my man? Disconsolately, I place it on the desk and
continue my hunt for a good read.
Most of the books are first editions. How can he have amassed a collection like this in such a
short time? Perhaps Taylor’s job description includes book buying. I settle on Rebecca by Daphne Du
Maurier. I haven’t read this for a long time. I smile as I curl up in one of the overstuffed armchairs
and read the first line:
Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again...
I am jostled awake as Christian lifts me in his arms.
“Hey,” he murmurs, “you fell asleep. I couldn’t find you.” He nuzzles my hair. Sleepily, I put my
arms around his neck and breathe in his scent—oh, he smells so good—as he carries me back to the
bedroom. He lays me down on the bed and covers me.
“Sleep, baby,” he whispers and he presses his lips against my forehead.
I wake suddenly from a disturbing dream and am momentarily disorientated. I find myself anxiously
checking the end of the bed, but there’s no one there. Drifting from the great room, I hear the faint
strains of a complex melody from the piano.
What time is it? I check the alarm clock—two in the morning. Has Christian come to sleep at all?
I disentangle my legs from my robe, which I’m still wearing, and clamber out of bed.
In the great room, I stand in the shadows, listening. Christian is lost to the music. He looks safe
and secure in his bubble of light. And the tune he plays has a lilting melody, parts of which sound
familiar, but so elaborate. Jeez, he’s good. Why does this always take me by surprise?
The whole scene looks different somehow, and I realize that the piano lid is down, giving me an
unhindered view. He glances up and our eyes lock, his gray and softly luminous in the diffuse glow ofthe lamp. He continues to play, not faltering at all, as I make my way over to him. His eyes follow me,
drinking me in, burning brighter. As I reach him, he stops.
“Why did you stop? That was lovely.”
“Do you have any idea how desirable you look at the moment?” he says, his voice soft.
Oh. “Come to bed,” I whisper and his eyes heat as he holds out his hand. When I take it, he tugs
unexpectedly so I fall into his lap. He wraps his arms around me and nuzzles my neck behind my ear,
sending shivers down my spine.
“Why do we fight?” he whispers, as his teeth graze my earlobe.
Holy cow. My heart skips a beat, then starts pounding, coursing heat throughout my body.
“Because we’re getting to know each other, and you’re stubborn and cantankerous and moody and
difficult,” I murmur breathlessly, shifting my head to give him better access to my throat. He runs his
nose down my neck, and I feel his smile.
“I’m all those things, Miss Steele. It’s a wonder you put up with me.” He nips my earlobe and I
moan. “Is it always like this?” he sighs.
“I have no idea.”
“Me neither.” He yanks the sash of my robe so it falls open, and his hand skims down my body,
over my breast. My nipples harden beneath his gentle touch and strain against the satin. He continues
down to my waist, down to my hip.
“You feel so fine under this material, and I can see everything—even this.” He tugs gently on my
pubic hair through the fabric, making me gasp, while his other hand fists in my hair at my nape.
Pulling my head back, he kisses me, his tongue urgent, relentless, needy. I moan in response and
caress his dear, dear face. His hand gently pulls my nightdress up, slowly, tantalizingly until he’s
fondling my naked behind and then running his thumbnail down the inside of my thigh.
Suddenly he rises, startling me, and he lifts me bodily onto the piano. My feet rest on the keys,
sounding discordant, disjointed notes, and his hands skim up my legs and part my knees. He grabs my
hands.
“Lie back,” he orders, holding my hands while I sink back on top of the piano. The lid is hard and
uncompromising against my back. He lets go and pushes my legs open wider, my feet dancing over
the keys, over the lower and higher notes.
Oh boy. I know what he’s going to do, and the anticipation... I groan loudly as he kisses the inside
of my knee, then kisses and sucks and nips his way higher up my leg to my thigh. The soft satin of my
nightgown rises higher, skimming over my sensitized skin, as he pushes the fabric. I flex my feet and
the chords sound again. Closing my eyes, I surrender myself to him as his mouth reaches the apex of
my thighs.
He kisses me... there... Oh boy... then gently blows before his tongue circles my clitoris. He
pushes my legs wider. I feel so open—so exposed. He holds me in place, his hands just above my
knees as his tongue tortures me, giving no quarter, no respite... no reprieve. Tilting my hips up,
meeting and matching his rhythm, I am consumed.
“Oh, Christian, please.” I moan.
“Oh no, baby, not yet,” he teases, but I feel myself quicken as does he, and he stops.
“No,” I whimper.
“This is my revenge, Ana,” he growls softly. “Argue with me, and I am going to take it out on
your body somehow.” He trails kisses along my belly, his hands traveling up my thighs, stroking,
kneading, tantalizing. His tongue circles my navel as his hands—and his thumbs... oh his thumbs—
reach the summit of my thighs.
“Ah!” I cry out as he pushes one inside me. The other persecutes me, slowly, agonizingly,circling round and round. My back arches off the piano as I writhe beneath his touch. It’s almost
unbearable.
“Christian!” I cry, spiraling out of control with need.
He takes pity on me and stops. Lifting my feet off the keys, he pushes me; and suddenly, I’m
sliding effortlessly up the piano, gliding on satin, and he’s following me up there, briefly kneeling
between my legs to roll on a condom. He hovers over me and I’m panting, gazing up at him with
raging need, and I realize he’s naked. When did he take off his clothes?
He stares down at me, and there’s wonder in his eyes, wonder and love and passion, and it’s
breathtaking.
“I want you so badly,” he says and very slowly, exquisitely, he sinks into me.
I am sprawled on top of him, wrung out, my limbs heavy and languid, as we lie on top of his grand
piano. Oh my. He’s much more comfortable to lie on than the piano. Careful not to touch his chest, I
rest my cheek against him and keep perfectly still. He doesn’t object, and I listen to his breathing as it
slows like mine. Gently he strokes my hair.
“Do you drink tea or coffee in the evening?” I ask sleepily.
“What a strange question,” he says dreamily.
“I thought I could bring you tea in your study, and then I realized I didn’t know what you would
like.”
“Oh, I see. Water or wine in the evening, Ana. Though maybe I should try tea.”
His hand moves rhythmically down my back, stroking me tenderly.
“We really know very little about each other,” I murmur.
“I know,” he says, and his voice is mournful. I sit up to gaze at him.
“What is it?” I ask. He shakes his head as if to rid himself of some unpleasant thought, and
raising his hand, he caresses my cheek, his eyes bright and earnest.
“I love you, Ana Steele,” he says.
The alarm blasts on with the six am traffic news, and I am rudely awakened from my disturbing dream
of over-blond and dark-haired women. I can’t grasp what it’s about, and I’m immediately distracted
because Christian Grey is wrapped around me like silk, his unruly-haired head on my chest, his hand
on my breast, his leg over me, holding me down. He’s still asleep, and I am too warm. But I ignore my
discomfort, tentatively reaching up to run my fingers gently through his hair, and he stirs. Raising
bright gray eyes, he grins sleepily. Holy cow... he’s adorable.
“Good morning, beautiful,” he says.
“Good morning, beautiful yourself.” I smile back at him. He kisses me, disentangles himself, andleans up on his elbow, staring down at me.
“Sleep okay?” he asks.
“Yes, despite the interruption to my sleep last night.”
His grin broadens. “Hmm. You can interrupt me like that anytime.” He kisses me again.
“How about you? Did you sleep well?”
“I always sleep well with you, Anastasia.”
“No more nightmares?”
“No.”
I frown and chance a question. “What are your nightmares about?”
His brow creases and his grin fades. Shit—my stupid curiosity.
“They’re flashbacks of my early childhood, or so Dr. Flynn says. Some vivid, some less so.” His
voice drops and a distant, harrowed look crosses his face. Absentmindedly, he begins to trace my
collarbone with his finger, distracting me.
“Do you wake up crying and screaming?” I try in vain to joke.
He looks at me, puzzled. “No, Anastasia. I’ve never cried. As far as I can remember.” He frowns,
as if reaching into the depths of his memories. Oh no—that’s too dark a place to go at this hour,
surely.
“Do you have any happy memories of your childhood?” I ask quickly, mainly to distract him. He
looks pensive for a moment, still running his finger along my skin.
“I recall the crack whore baking. I remember the smell. A birthday cake I think. For me. And then
there’s Mia’s arrival with my mom and dad. My mom was worried about my reaction, but I adored
baby Mia immediately. My first word was Mia. I remember my first piano lesson. Miss Kathie, my
tutor, was awesome. She kept horses, too.” He smiles wistfully.
“You said your mom saved you. How?”
His reverie is broken, and he gazes at me as if I don’t understand the elementary math of two plus
two.
“She adopted me,” he says simply. “I thought she was an angel when I first met her. She was
dressed in white and so gentle and calm as she examined me. I’ll never forget that. If she’d said no or
if Carrick had said no...” He shrugs and glances over his shoulder at the alarm clock. “This is all a
little deep for so early in the morning,” he mutters.
“I have made a vow to get to know you better.”
“Did you now, Miss Steele? I thought you wanted to know if I preferred coffee or tea.” He
smirks. “Anyway, I can think of one way you can get to know me.” He pushes his hips suggestively
against me.
“I think I know you quite well enough that way.” My voice is haughty and scolding, and it makes
him smile more broadly.
“I don’t think I’ll ever get to know you well enough that way,” he murmurs. “There are definite
advantages to waking up beside you.” His voice is soft and bone-meltingly seductive.
“Don’t you have to get up?” My voice is low and husky. Jeez, what he does to me...
“Not this morning. Only one place I want to be up right now, Miss Steele.” And his eyes sparkle
salaciously.
“Christian!” I gasp, shocked. He shifts suddenly so that he’s on top of me, pressing me into the
bed. Grabbing my hands, he pulls them up above my head and begins to kiss my throat.
“Oh, Miss Steele.” He smiles against my skin, sending delicious tingles through me, as his hand
travels down my body and starts to slowly hitch up my satin nightdress. “Oh, what I’d like to do to
you,” he murmurs.And I am lost, interrogation over.
Mrs. Jones sets down my breakfast of pancakes and bacon, and for Christian an omelet and bacon. We
sit side by side at the bar in a comfortable silence.
“When am I going to meet your trainer, Claude, and put him through his paces?” I ask. Christian
glances down at me, grinning.
“Depends if you want to go to New York this weekend or not—unless you’d like to see him early
one morning this week. I’ll ask Andrea to check on his schedule and come back to you.”
“Andrea?”
“My PA.”
Oh yes. “One of your many blondes,” I tease him.
“She’s not mine. She works for me. You’re mine.”
“I work for you,” I mutter sourly.
He grins as if he’s forgotten. “So you do.” His beaming smile is infectious.
“Maybe Claude can teach me to kickbox,” I warn.
“Oh yeah? Fancy your chances against me?” Christian raises an eyebrow, amused. “Bring it on,
Miss Steele.” He is so damned happy compared to yesterday’s foul mood after Elena left. It’s totally
disarming. Maybe it’s all the sex... perhaps that’s what’s making him so buoyant.
I glance behind me at the piano, savoring the memory of last night. “You put the lid of the piano
back up.”
“I closed it last night so as not to disturb you. Guess it didn’t work, but I’m glad it didn’t.”
Christian’s lips twitch into a lascivious smile as he takes a bite of omelet. I go crimson and smirk
back at him.
Oh yes... fun times on the piano.
Mrs. Jones leans over and places a paper bag containing my lunch in front of me, making me
flush guiltily.
“For later, Ana. Tuna okay?”
“Oh yes. Thank you, Mrs. Jones.” I give her a shy smile, which she reciprocates warmly before
leaving the great room. I suspect it’s to give us some privacy.
“Can I ask you something?” I turn back to Christian.
His amused expression slips. “Of course.”
“And you won’t be angry?”
“Is it about Elena?”
“No.”
“Then I won’t be angry.”
“But I now have a supplementary question.”
“Oh?”
“Which is about her.”
He rolls his eyes. “What?” he says, and now he’s exasperated.
“Why do you get so mad when I ask you about her?”
“Honestly?”
I scowl at him. “I thought you were always honest with me.”
“I endeavor to be.”
I narrow my eyes at him. “That sounds like a very evasive answer.”“I am always honest with you, Ana. I don’t want to play games. Well, not those sorts of games,”
he qualifies, as his eyes heat.
“What sort of games do you want to play?”
He inclines his head to one side and smirks at me. “Miss Steele, you are so easily distracted.”
I giggle. He’s right. “Mr. Grey, you are distracting on so many levels.” I gaze at his dancing gray
eyes alight with humor.
“My favorite sound in the whole world is your giggle, Anastasia. Now—what was your original
question?” he asks smoothly, and I think he’s laughing at me. I try to twist my mouth to show my
displeasure, but I like playful Fifty—he’s fun. I love some early morning banter. I frown, trying to
recall my question.
“Oh yes. You only saw your subs on the weekends?”
“Yes, that’s correct,” he says regarding me nervously.
I grin at him. “So, no sex during the week.”
He laughs. “Oh, that’s where we’re going with this.” He looks vaguely relieved. “Why do you
think I work out every weekday?” Now he really is laughing at me, but I don’t care. I want to hug
myself with glee. Another first—well, several firsts.
“You look very pleased with yourself, Miss Steele.”
“I am, Mr. Grey.”
“You should be.” He grins. “Now eat your breakfast.”
Oh, bossy Fifty... he’s never far away.
We are in the back of the Audi. Taylor is driving with the intention of dropping me off at work, then
Christian. Sawyer is riding shotgun.
“Didn’t you say your roommate’s brother was arriving today?” Christian asks, almost casually,
his voice and expression giving nothing away.
“Oh, Ethan,” I gasp. “I forgot. Oh Christian, thank you for reminding me. I’ll have to go back to
the apartment.”
His face falls. “What time?”
“I’m not sure what time he’s arriving.”
“I don’t want you going anywhere on your own,” he says sharply.
“I know,” I mutter and resist rolling my eyes at Mr. Over-Reaction. “Will Sawyer be spying—
um... patrolling today?” I glance slyly in Sawyer’s direction to see the backs of his ears turn red.
“Yes,” Christian snaps, his eyes glacial.
“If I was driving the Saab it would be easier,” I mutter petulantly.
“Sawyer will have a car, and he can drive you to your apartment, depending on what time.”
“Okay. I think Ethan will probably contact me during the day. I’ll let you know what the plans are
then.”
He gazes at me, saying nothing. Oh, what is he thinking?
“Okay,” he acquiesces. “Nowhere on your own. Do you understand?” He waves a long finger at
me.
“Yes, dear,” I mutter.
There’s a trace of a smile on his face. “And maybe you should just use your Blackberry—I’ll e-
mail you on it. That should prevent my IT guy having a thoroughly interesting morning, okay?” His
voice is sardonic.“Yes, Christian.” I can’t resist. I roll my eyes at him, and he smirks at me.
“Why Miss Steele, I do believe you’re making my palm twitch.”
“Ah, Mr. Grey, your perpetually twitching palm. What are we going to do with that?”
He laughs and then is distracted by his Blackberry, which must be on vibrate because it doesn’t
ring. He frowns when he sees the caller ID.
“What is it?” he snaps into the phone, then listens intently. I use the opportunity to study his
lovely features—his straight nose, his hair hanging scruffily over his forehead. I am distracted from
my surreptitious ogling by his expression, which turns from incredulity to amusement. I pay attention.
“You’re kidding... For a scene... When did he tell you this?” Christian chuckles, almost
reluctantly. “No, don’t worry. You don’t have to apologize. I’m glad there’s a logical explanation. It
did seem a ridiculously low amount of money... I have no doubt you’ve something evil and creative
planned for your revenge. Poor Isaac.” He smiles. “Good... Good-bye.” He snaps the phone shut and
glances at me. His eyes are suddenly wary, but oddly, he looks relieved, too.
“Who was that?” I ask.
“You really want to know?” he asks quietly.
And, I know. I shake my head and stare out my window at the gray Seattle day, feeling forlorn.
Why can’t she leave him alone?
“Hey.” He reaches for my hand and kisses each of my knuckles in turn, and suddenly he’s
sucking my little finger, hard. Then biting it softly.
Whoa! He has a hotline to my groin, I gasp and glance nervously at Taylor and Sawyer, then at
Christian, and his eyes are darker. He gives me a slow carnal smile.
“Don’t sweat it, Anastasia,” he murmurs. “She’s in the past.” And he plants a kiss in the center of
my palm, sending tingles everywhere, and my momentary pique is forgotten.
“Morning, Ana,” Jack mutters as I make my way to my desk. “Nice dress.”
I flush. The dress is part of my new wardrobe, courtesy of my incredibly rich boyfriend. It’s a
sleeveless shift dress of pale blue linen, quite fitted, and I’m wearing cream high-heeled sandals.
Christian likes heels, I think. I smile secretly at the thought but quickly recover my bland professional
smile for my boss.
“Good morning, Jack.”
I set about ordering a messenger to take his brochure to the printers. He pops his head around his
office door.
“Could I have a coffee, please, Ana?”
“Sure.” I wander into the kitchen and bump into Claire from reception, who is also fixing coffee.
“Hey, Ana,” she says cheerfully.
“Hi, Claire.”
We chat briefly about her extended-family gathering over the weekend, which she enjoyed
immensely, and I tell her about sailing with Christian.
“Your boyfriend is so dreamy, Ana,” she says, her eyes glazing over.
I am tempted to roll my eyes at her.
“He’s not bad-looking,” I smile and we both start laughing.“You took your time!” Jack snaps when I bring in his coffee.
Oh! “I’m sorry.” I flush then frown. I took the usual amount of time. What’s his problem?
Perhaps he’s nervous about something.
He shakes his head. “Sorry, Ana. I didn’t mean to bark at you, honey.”
Honey?
“There’s something going on at senior management level, and I don’t know what it is. Keep your
ear to the ground, okay? If you hear anything—I know how you girls talk.” He grins at me, and I feel
slightly sick. He has no idea how we “girls” talk. Besides, I know what’s happening.
“You’ll let me know, right?”
“Sure,” I mutter. “I’ve sent the brochure to the printers. It will be back by two o’clock.”
“Great. Here.” He hands me a pile of manuscripts. “All these need synopses of the first chapter,
then filing.”
“I’ll get on it.”
I am relieved to step out of his office and sit down at my desk. Oh, it’s hard being in the know.
What will he do when he finds out? My blood runs cold. Something tells me Jack will be annoyed. I
glance at my Blackberry and smile. There’s an e-mail from Christian.
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Sunrise
Date:June 14, 2011 09:23
To:Anastasia Steele
I love waking up to you in the morning.
Christian Grey
Completely & Utterly Smitten CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I think my face splits in two with my grin, and my inner goddess back-flips over her chaise longue.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Sundown
Date:June 14, 2011 09:35
To:Christian Grey
Dear Completely & Utterly Smitten
I love waking up to you, too. But I love being in bed with you and in elevators and on pianos and billiard tables and boats and desks and showers and bathtubs and strange wooden crosses with shackles and four-poster beds with red satin sheets and
boathouses and childhood bedrooms.
Yours
Sex Mad and Insatiable xx
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Wet Hardware
Date:June 14, 2011 09:37
To:Anastasia Steele
Dear Sex Mad and Insatiable
I’ve just spat coffee all over my keyboard.
I don’t think that’s ever happened to me before.I do admire a woman who concentrates on geography.
Am I to infer you just want me for my body?
Christian Grey
Completely & Utterly Shocked CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Giggling—and wet too
Date:June 14, 2011: 09:42
To:Christian Grey
Dear Completely & Utterly Shocked
Always.
I have work to do.
Stop bothering me.
SM&I xx
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Do I have to?
Date:June 14, 2011 09:50
To:Anastasia Steele
Dear SM&I
As ever, your wish is my command.
Love that you are giggling and wet.
Laters, baby.
x
Christian Grey,
Completely & Utterly Smitten, Shocked and Spellbound CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I put the Blackberry down and get on with my work.
At lunchtime, Jack asks me to go down to the deli for his lunch. I call Christian as soon as I leave
Jack’s office.
“Anastasia.” He answers immediately, his voice warm and caressing. How is it that this man can
make me melt over the phone?
“Christian, Jack has asked me to get his lunch.”
“Lazy bastard,” Christian gripes.
I ignore him and continue. “So I’m going to get it. It might be handy if you gave me Sawyer’s
number, so I don’t have to bother you.”
“It’s no bother, baby.”
“Are you on your own?”
“No. There are six people staring at me at the moment wondering who the hell I’m talking to.”
Shit... “Really?” I gasp, panicked.
“Yes. Really. My girlfriend,” he announces away from the phone.
Holy cow! “They probably all thought you were gay, you know.”
He laughs. “Yeah, probably.” I hear his grin.
“Er—I’d better go.” I am sure he can tell how embarrassed I am to be interrupting him.
“I’ll let Sawyer know.” He laughs again. “Have you heard from your friend?”“Not yet. You’ll be the first to know, Mr. Grey.”
“Good. Laters, baby.”
“Bye, Christian.” I grin. Every time he says that, it makes me smile... so un-Fifty, but somehow
so him, too.
When I exit moments later, Sawyer is waiting on the doorstep of the building.
“Miss Steele,” he greets me formally.
“Sawyer.” I nod in response and together we head down to the deli.
I don’t feel as comfortable with Sawyer as I do with Taylor. He continually scans the street as we
make our way along the block. It actually makes me more nervous, and I find myself mirroring his
actions.
Is Leila out there? Or are we all infected by Christian’s paranoia? Is this part of his fifty shades?
What I’d give for half an hour of candid discussion with Dr. Flynn, to find out.
There’s nothing amiss, just lunchtime Seattle—people rushing for lunch, shopping, meeting
friends. I watch two young women hug as they meet up.
I miss Kate. It’s only been two weeks since she left for her vacation, but it feels like the longest
two weeks of my life. So much has happened—she’ll never believe me when I tell her. Well, tell her
the edited NDA-compliant version. I frown. I’ll have to talk to Christian about that. What would Kate
make of it? I blanch at the thought. Perhaps she’ll be back with Ethan. I feel a rush of excitement at
the thought, but I think it’s unlikely. She’d stay on with Elliot surely.
“Where do you stand when you’re waiting and watching outside?” I ask Sawyer as we get in line
for lunch. Sawyer is in front of me, facing the door, continually monitoring the street and anyone who
comes in. It’s unnerving.
“I sit in the coffee shop directly across the street, Miss Steele.”
“Doesn’t it get very boring?”
“Not to me, ma’am. It’s what I do,” he says stiffly.
I flush. “Sorry, I didn’t mean to imply...” My voice trails off at his kind, understanding
expression.
“Please, Miss Steele. My job is to protect you. And that’s what I’ll do.”
“So, no sign of Leila?”
“No, ma’am.”
I frown. “How do you know what she looks like?”
“I’ve seen her photograph.”
“Oh, do you have it on you?”
“No, ma’am.” He taps his skull. “Committed to memory.”
Of course. I’d really like to examine a photograph of Leila to see what she looked like before she
became Ghost Girl. I wonder if Christian would let me have a copy? Yes, he probably would—for my
safety. I hatch a plan, and my subconscious gloats and nods approvingly.
The brochures arrive back at the office, and I have to say, they look great. I take one into Jack’s office.
His eyes light up, and I don’t know if it’s at me or the brochure. I choose to believe it’s the latter.
“These look great, Ana.” Idly, he flicks through it. “Yeah, good job. Are you seeing yourboyfriend this evening?” His lip curls as he says boyfriend.
“Yes. We live together.” It’s sort of the truth. Well, we do at the moment. And I have officially
agreed to move in, so it’s not much of a white lie. I hope that it’s enough to throw him off the scent.
“Would he object to you coming out for a quick drink tonight? To celebrate all your hard work?”
“I have a friend coming in from out of town tonight, and we’re all going out for dinner.”And I’ll
be busy every night, Jack.
“I see.” He sighs, exasperated. “Maybe when I’m back from New York, huh?” He raises his
eyebrows in expectation, and his gaze darkens suggestively.
Oh no. I smile, noncommittal, stifling a shudder.
“Would you like some coffee or tea?” I ask.
“Coffee, please.” His voice is low and husky as if he’s asking for something else. Fuck. He’s not
going to back off. I can see that now. Oh... What to do?
I breathe a long sigh of relief when I am out of his office. He makes me tense. Christian is right
about him, and part of me is pissed that Christian is right about him.
I sit down at my desk and my Blackberry rings—a number I don’t recognize.
“Ana Steele.”
“Hi, Steele!” Ethan’s drawl catches me momentarily off guard.
“Ethan! How are you?” I almost squeal with delight.
“Glad to be back. I am seriously fed up with sunshine and rum punches, and my baby sister being
hopelessly in love with the big guy. It’s been hell, Ana.”
“Yeah! Sea, sand, sun, and rum punches sounds like Dante’s Inferno.” I giggle. “Where are you?”
“I’m at Sea-Tac, waiting for my bag. What are you doing?”
“I’m at work. Yes, I am gainfully employed,” I respond to his gasp. “Do you want to come here
and collect the keys? I can meet you later at the apartment.”
“Sounds great. I’ll see you in about 45 minutes, an hour maybe? What’s the address?”
I give him SIP’s address.
“See you soon, Ethan.”
“Laters,” he says and hangs up. What? Not Ethan, too? And it dawns on me that he’s just spent a
week with Elliot. I quickly type an e-mail to Christian.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Visitors from Sunny Climes.
Date:June 14, 2011: 14:55
To:Christian Grey
Dearest Completely & Utterly SS&S
Ethan is back, and he’s coming here to collect keys to the apartment.
I’d really like to make sure he’s settled in okay.
Why don’t you collect me after work? We can go to the apartment then we can ALL go out for a meal maybe?
My treat?
Your
Ana x
Still SM&I
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Dinner Out
Date:June 14, 2011 15:05To:Anastasia Steele
I approve of your plan. Except the part about you paying!
My treat.
I’ll collect you at 6:00.
x
PS: Why aren’t you using your Blackberry!!!
Christian Grey
Completely and Utterly Annoyed, CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Bossiness
Date:June 14, 2011: 15:11
To:Christian Grey
Oh, don’t be so crusty and cross.
It’s all in code.
I’ll see you at 6:00.
Ana x
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Maddening Woman
Date:June 14, 2011 15:18
To:Anastasia Steele
Crusty and cross!
I’ll give you crusty and cross.
And look forward to it.
Christian Grey
Completely and Utterly More Annoyed, but smiling for some unknown reason, CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Promises. Promises.
Date:June 14, 2011: 15:23
To:Christian Grey
Bring it on, Mr. Grey
I look forward to it too. ;D
Ana x
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
He doesn’t reply, but then I don’t expect him to. I imagine him moaning about mixed signals, and the
thought makes me smile. I daydream briefly about what he might do to me but find myself shifting
about in my chair. My subconscious gazes at me disapprovingly over her half-moon specs—get on
with your work.
A little later, my phone buzzes. It’s Claire at reception.
“There’s a real cute guy in reception to see you. We must go out for drinks sometime, Ana. Yousure know some hunky guys,” she hisses conspiratorially through the phone.
Ethan! Grabbing my keys from my purse, I hurry out to the foyer.
Holy shit—sun-bleached blond hair, a tan to die for, and glowing hazel eyes gaze up at me from
the green leather couch. As soon as he sees me, his mouth drops open, and he’s on his feet coming
toward me.
“Wow, Ana.” He frowns at me as he bends to give me hug.
“You look well.” I grin up at him.
“You look... wow—different. Worldly, more sophisticated. What’s happened? You changed your
hair? Clothes? I don’t know, Steele, but you look hot!”
I blush furiously. “Oh, Ethan. I’m just in my work clothes,” I scold as Claire looks on with an
arched eyebrow and a wry smile.
“How was Barbados?”
“Fun,” he says.
“When’s Kate back?”
“She and Elliot are flying back Friday. They’re pretty damn serious about each other.” Ethan rolls
his eyes.
“I’ve missed her.”
“Yeah? How have you been doing with Mr. Mogul?”
“Mr. Mogul?” I snicker. “Well, it’s been interesting. He’s taking us out for dinner this evening.”
“Cool.” Ethan seems genuinely pleased. Phew!
“Here.” I hand him the keys. “You have the address?”
“Yeah. Laters.” He leans over and kisses my cheek.
“Elliot’s expression?”
“Yeah, kind of grows on you.”
“It does. Laters.” I smile at him as he collects his large shoulder bag from beside the green couch
and exits the building.
When I turn, Jack is watching me from the far side of the foyer, his expression unreadable. I
smile brightly at him and head back to my desk, feeling his eyes on me the whole time. This is
beginning to get on my nerves. What to do? I have no idea. I’ll have to wait until Kate is back. She’s
bound to come up with a plan. The thought dispels my bleak mood, and I pick up the next manuscript.
At five to six, my phone buzzes. It’s Christian.
“Crusty and Cross here,” he says and I grin. He’s still playful Fifty. My inner goddess is clapping
her hands with glee like a small child.
“Well, this is Sex Mad and Insatiable. I take it you’re outside?” I ask dryly.
“I am indeed, Miss Steele. Looking forward to seeing you.” His voice is warm and seductive, and
my heart flutters wildly.
“Ditto, Mr. Grey. I’ll be right out.” I hang up.
I switch off my computer and gather up my purse and cream cardigan.
“I’m off now, Jack,” I call through.
“Okay, Ana. Thanks for today, honey! Have a great evening.”
“You, too.”
Why can’t he be like that all the time? I don’t understand him.The Audi is parked at the curb, and Christian climbs out as I approach. He’s taken off his jacket, and
he’s wearing his gray pants, my favorite ones that hang from his hips—in that way. How can this
Greek god be meant for me? I find myself grinning like a loon in answer to his own idiotic grin.
He’s spent the whole day acting like a boyfriend in love—in love with me. This adorable,
complex, flawed man is in love with me, and I with him. Joy bursts unexpectedly inside me, and I
savor the moment as I feel briefly that I could conquer the world.
“Miss Steele, you look as captivating as you did this morning.” Christian pulls me into his arms
and kisses me soundly.
“Mr. Grey, so do you.”
“Let’s go get your friend.” He smiles down at me and opens the car door.
As Taylor heads to the apartment, Christian fills me in on his day—a much better one than
yesterday, it seems. I gaze at him adoringly as he attempts to explain some breakthrough the
environmental science department at WSU in Vancouver has made. His words mean very little to me,
but I’m captivated by his passion and interest in this subject. Maybe this is what it will be like, good
days and bad days, and if the good days are like this, I won’t have much to complain about. He hands
me a sheet of paper.
“These are the times that Claude is free this week,” he says.
Oh! The trainer.
As we pull up to my apartment building, he fishes his Blackberry from his pocket.
“Grey,” he answers. “Ros, what is it?” He listens intently, and I can tell it’s an involved
conversation.
“I’ll go and get Ethan. I’ll be two minutes,” I mouth at Christian and hold up two fingers.
He nods, obviously distracted by the call. Taylor opens my door, smiling at me warmly. I grin at
him, even Taylor’s feeling it. I press the entry phone and shout happily into it.
“Hi, Ethan, it’s me. Let me in.”
The door buzzes, and I head upstairs to the apartment. It occurs to me that I have not been here
since Saturday morning. That seems so long ago. Ethan has kindly left the front door open. I step into
the apartment, and I don’t know why, but I freeze instinctively as soon as I step inside. I take a
moment to realize it’s because the pale, wan figure standing by the kitchen island, holding a small
revolver is Leila, and she’s gazing impassively at me.Holy fuck.
She’s here, gazing at me with an unnerving blank expression, holding a gun. My subconscious
swoons into a dead faint, and I don’t think even smelling salts will bring her back.
I blink repeatedly at Leila as my mind goes into overdrive. How did she get in? Where’s Ethan?
Holy shit! Where is Ethan?
A creeping cold fear grips my heart, and my scalp prickles as each and every follicle on my head
tightens with terror. What if she’s harmed him? I start breathing rapidly as adrenaline and bone-
numbing dread course through my body. Keep calm, keep calm—I repeat the mantra over and over in
my head.
She tilts her head to one side, regarding me as if I’m an exhibit in a freak show. Jeez, I’m not the
freak here.
It feels like an eon has passed while I process all this, though in reality it is only a split second.
Leila’s expression remains blank, and her appearance is as scruffy and ill-kempt as ever. She’s still
wearing that grubby trench coat, and she looks desperately in need of a wash. Her hair is greasy and
lank, plastered against her head, and her eyes are a dull brown, cloudy, and vaguely confused.
Despite the fact that my mouth has no moisture in it whatsoever, I attempt to speak. “Hi. Leila,
isn’t it?” I rasp. She smiles, but it’s a disturbing curl of her lip rather than a true smile.
“She speaks,” she whispers, and her voice is soft and hoarse at the same time, an eerie sound.
“Yes, I speak,” I say gently as if to a child. “Are you here alone?”Where is Ethan? My heart
pounds at the thought that he might have come to some harm.
Her face falls, so much so that I think she’s about to burst into tears—she looks so forlorn.
“Alone,” she whispers. “Alone.” And the depth of sadness in that one word is heart wrenching.
What does she mean? I am alone? She’s alone? She’s alone because she’s harmed Ethan? Oh... no... I
have to fight the choking fear clawing at my throat as tears threaten.
“What are you doing here? Can I help you?” My words are a calm, gentle interrogation despite
the suffocating fear in my throat. Her brow furrows as if she’s completely befuddled by my questions.
But she makes no violent move against me. Her hand is still relaxed around her gun. I take a different
tack, trying to ignore my tightening scalp.
“Would you like some tea?”Why am I asking her if she wants tea? It’s Ray’s answer to anyemotional situation, resurfacing inappropriately. Jeez, he’d have a fit if he saw me right this minute.
His army training would have kicked in, and he’d have disarmed her by now. She’s not actually
pointing that gun at me. Perhaps I can move. She shakes her head and tilts it from side to side as if
stretching her neck.
I take a deep precious lungful of air, trying to calm my panicked breathing, and move toward the
kitchen island. She frowns as if she can’t quite understand what I am doing and shifts a little so she is
still facing me. I reach the kettle and with a shaking hand fill it from the faucet. As I move, my
breathing eases. Yes, if she wanted me dead, surely she would have shot me by now. She watches me
with an absent, bemused curiosity. As I switch on the kettle, I’m plagued by the thought of Ethan. Is
he hurt? Tied up?
“Is there anyone else in the apartment?” I ask tentatively.
She inclines her head the other way, and with her right hand—the hand not holding the revolver
—she grabs a strand of her long greasy hair and starts twirling and fiddling with it, pulling and
twisting. It’s obviously a nervous habit, and while I am distracted by this, I am struck once again by
how much she resembles me. I hold my breath, waiting for her answer, the anxiety building to an
almost unbearable pitch.
“Alone. All alone,” she murmurs. I find this comforting. Maybe Ethan isn’t here. The relief is
empowering.
“Are you sure you don’t want tea or coffee?”
“Not thirsty,” she answers softly, and she takes a cautious step toward me. My feeling of
empowerment evaporates. Fuck!I start panting with fear again, feeling it surge thick and rough
through my veins. In spite of this and feeling beyond brave, I turn and fetch a couple of cups from the
cupboard.
“What do you have that I don’t?” she asks, her voice assuming the singsong intonation of a child.
“What do you mean, Leila?” I ask as gently as I can.
“Master—Mr. Grey—he lets you call him by his given name.”
“I’m not his submissive, Leila. Er... Master understands that I am unable, inadequate to fulfill
that role.”
She tilts her head to the other side. It’s wholly unnerving and unnatural as a gesture.
“In-ad-e-quate.” She tests the word, sounding it out, seeing how it feels on her tongue. “But
Master is happy. I have seen him. He laughs and smiles. These reactions are rare... very rare for him.”
Oh.
“You look like me.” Leila changes tack, surprising me, her eyes seeming to focus on me properly
for the first time. “Master likes obedient ones who look like you and me. The others, all the same... all
the same... and yet you sleep in his bed. I saw you.”
Shit! She was in the room. I didn’t imagine it.
“You saw me in his bed?” I whisper.
“I never slept in Master’s bed,” she murmurs. She’s like a fallen ethereal wraith. Half a person.
She looks so slight, and in spite of the fact that she’s holding a gun, I suddenly feel overwhelmed with
sympathy for her. Her hands flex around the weapon, and my eyes widen, threatening to pop from my
head.
“Why does Master like us like this? It makes me think something... something... Master is dark...
Master is a dark man, but I love him.”
No, no, he’s not. I bristle internally. He’s not dark. He’s a good man, and he’s not in the dark.
He’s joined me in the light. And now she’s here, trying to drag him back with some warped idea that
she loves him.
“Leila, do you want to give me the gun?” I ask softly. Her hand grips it tightly, and she hugs it toher chest.
“This is mine. It’s all I have left.” She gently caresses the gun. “So she can join her love.”
Holy shit!Which love—Christian? It’s like she’s punched me in the stomach. I know he will be
here momentarily to find out what’s keeping me. Does she mean to shoot him? The thought is so
horrific, I feel my throat swell and ache as a huge knot forms there, almost choking me, matching the
fear that’s balled tightly in my stomach.
Right on cue the door bursts open, and Christian is standing in the doorway, Taylor behind him.
Glancing at me briefly, Christian’s eyes sweep over me from head to toe, and I notice the small
spark of relief in his look. But his relief is fleeting as his gaze darts to Leila and stills, focusing on her,
not wavering in the slightest. He glares at her with an intensity I have not seen before, his eyes wild,
wide, angry, and scared.
Oh no... oh no.
Leila’s eyes widen, and for a moment, it seems her reason returns. She blinks rapidly while her
hand tightens once more around the gun.
My breath catches in my throat, and my heart starts thumping so loud that I hear the blood
pounding in my ears. No, no, no!
My world teeters precariously in the hands of this poor, fucked-up woman. Will she shoot? Both
of us? Christian? The thought is crippling.
But after an eternity, as time hangs suspended around us, her head dips slightly and she gazes up
at him, through her long lashes, her expression contrite.
Christian holds up his hand, signaling to Taylor to stay where he is. Taylor’s blanched face
betrays his fury. I have never seen him like this, but he stands stock-still as Christian and Leila stare at
each other.
I realize I’m holding my breath. What will she do? What will he do? But they just continue to
stare at each other. Christian’s expression is raw, full of some unnamed emotion. It could be pity, fear,
affection... or is it love? No, please, not love!
His eyes bore into her, and agonizingly slowly, the atmosphere in the apartment changes. The
tension is building so that I can sense their connection, the charge between them.
No! Suddenly I feel I’m the interloper, intruding on them as they stand gazing at each other. I’m
an outsider—a voyeur, spying on a forbidden, intimate scene behind closed curtains.
Christian’s intense gaze burns brighter, and his bearing changes subtly. He looks taller, more
angular somehow, colder, and more distant. I recognize this stance. I’ve seen him like this before—in
his playroom.
My scalp prickles anew. This is Dominant Christian, and how at ease he looks. Whether he was
born to or made for this role, I just don’t know, but with a sinking heart and sickened stomach, I watch
as Leila responds, her lips parting, her breathing picking up as the first flush of color stains her
cheeks. No! It’s such an unwelcome glimpse into his past, agonizing to witness.
Finally, he mouths a word at her. I can’t make out what it is, but the effect on Leila is immediate.
She drops to the floor on her knees, her head bowed, and the gun falls and skitters uselessly across the
wooden floor. Holy fuck.
Christian walks calmly over to where the gun has fallen and bends gracefully to pick it up. He
regards it with ill-disguised disgust then slips it into his jacket pocket. He gazes once more at Leila as
she kneels compliantly beside the kitchen island.
“Anastasia, go with Taylor,” he commands. Taylor crosses the threshold and stares at me.
“Ethan,” I whisper.
“Downstairs.” He responds matter-of-factly, his eyes never leaving Leila.Downstairs. Not here. Ethan’s okay. Relief floods hard and fast through my blood,and for a
moment I think I’m going to faint.
“Anastasia,” Christian’s tone is clipped in warning.
I blink at him, and I’m suddenly unable to move. I don’t want to leave him—leave him with her.
He moves to stand beside Leila as she kneels at his feet. He’s hovering over her, protectively. She’s so
still, it’s unnatural. I can’t take my eyes off the two of them—together...
“For the love of God, Anastasia, will you do as you’re told for once in your life andgo!”
Christian’s eyes lock with mine as he glowers at me, his voice a blistering cold shard of ice. The anger
beneath the quiet, deliberate delivery of his words is palpable.
Angry at me? Surely not. Please—No!I feel like he’s slapped me hard. Why does he want to stay
with her?
“Taylor. Take Miss Steele downstairs. Now.”
Taylor nods at him as I stare at Christian.
“Why?” I whisper.
“Go. Back to the apartment.” His eyes blaze frostily at me. “I need to be alone with Leila.” He
says it urgently.
I think he’s trying to convey some kind of message, but I’m so thrown by all that’s happened that
I’m not sure. I glance down at Leila and notice a very small smile cross her lips, but otherwise she
remains truly impassive. A complete submissive. Fuck!My heart chills.
This is what he needs. This is what he likes. No!I want to wail.
“Miss Steele. Ana.” Taylor holds his hand out to me, imploring me to come. I am immobilized by
the horrific spectacle before me. It confirms my worst fears and plays on all my insecurities: Christian
and Leila together—the Dom and his sub.
“Taylor,” Christian urges, and Taylor leans down and scoops me into his arms. The last thing I
see as we leave is Christian gently stroking Leila’s head as he murmurs something softly to her.
No!
As Taylor carries me down the stairs, I lie limply in his arms trying to grasp what’s happened in
the last ten minutes—was it longer? Or shorter? The concept of time has deserted me.
Christian and Leila, Leila and Christian... together? What is he doing with her now?
“Jesus, Ana! What the fuck is going on?”
I am relieved to see Ethan as he paces the small lobby, still carrying his large shoulder bag. Oh,
thank heavens he’s okay! When Taylor sets me down, I practically throw myself at Ethan, wrapping
my arms around his neck.
“Ethan. Oh, thank God!” I hug him, holding him close. I was so worried, and for a brief moment,
I enjoy some respite from my rising panic at what is unfolding upstairs in my apartment.
“What the fuck is going on, Ana? Who’s this guy?”
“Oh, sorry, Ethan, this is Taylor. He works with Christian. Taylor, this is Ethan, my roommate’s
brother.”
They nod at each other.
“Ana, upstairs, what’s going on? I was fishing for the apartment keys when these guys jumped
out of nowhere and grabbed them. One of them was Christian...” Ethan’s voice trails off.
“You were late... Thank God.”
“Yeah. I met a friend from Pullman—we had a quick drink. Upstairs, what’s going on?”
“There’s a girl, an ex of Christian’s. In our apartment. She’s gone postal, and Christian is...” My
voice cracks, and tears pool in my eyes.
“Hey,” Ethan whispers and pulls me close once more. “Has anyone called the cops?”“No, it’s not like that.” I sob into his chest and now I’ve started, I can’t stop crying, the tension of
this latest episode releasing through my tears. Ethan tightens his arms around me, but I sense his
bemusement.
“Hey, Ana, let’s go get a drink.” He pats my back awkwardly. Abruptly, I feel awkward, too, and
embarrassed, and in all honesty, I want to be on my own. But I nod, accepting his offer. I want to be
away from here, away from whatever’s going on upstairs.
I turn to Taylor.
“Was the apartment checked?” I ask him tearfully, wiping my nose with the back of my hand.
“This afternoon.” Taylor shrugs apologetically as he hands me a handkerchief. He looks
devastated. “I’m sorry, Ana,” he murmurs.
I frown. Jeez, he looks so guilty. I don’t want to make him feel worse.
“She does seem to have an uncanny ability to evade us,” he adds scowling again.
“Ethan and I will go for a quick drink then head back to Escala.” I dry my eyes.
Taylor shuffles from foot to foot uncomfortably. “Mr. Grey wanted you to go back to the
apartment,” he says quietly.
“Well, we know where Leila is now.” I can’t keep the bitterness out of my voice. “So, no need for
all the security. Tell Christian we’ll see him later.”
Taylor opens his mouth to speak and then wisely closes it again.
“Do you want to leave your bag with Taylor?” I ask Ethan.
“No, I’ll keep it with me, thanks.”
Ethan nods at Taylor, then ushers me out of the front door. Too late, I remember that I’ve left my
purse in the back of Audi. I have nothing.
“My purse—”
“Don’t worry,” Ethan murmurs, his face full of concern. “It’s cool, it’s on me.”
We choose a bar across the street, settling onto wooden bar stools by the window. I want to see what’s
going on—who’s coming, and more importantly who’s going. Ethan hands me a bottle of beer.
“Trouble with an ex?” he says gently.
“It’s a bit more complicated than that,” I mutter, abruptly guarded. I can’t talk about this—I have
signed an NDA. And for the first time, I really resent that fact and that Christian’s said nothing about
rescinding it.
“I’ve got time,” Ethan says kindly and takes a long slug of his beer.
“She’s an ex, from years back. She left her husband for some guy. Then a couple of weeks or so
ago he was killed in a car crash, and now she’s come after Christian.” I shrug. There, that didn’t give
too much away.
“Come after him?”
“She had a gun.”
“What the fuck!”
“She didn’t actually threaten anyone with it. I think she meant to harm herself. But that’s why I
was so worried about you. I didn’t know if you were in the apartment.”
“I see. She sounds unstable.”
“Yes, she is.”
“And what’s Christian doing with her now?”
The blood drains from my face and bile rises in my throat. “I don’t know,” I whisper.Ethan’s eyes widen—at last he’s got it.
This is the crux of my problem. What the fuckarethey doing? Talking, I hope. Just talking. Yet all
I can see in my mind’s eye is his hand, tenderly stroking her hair.
She’s disturbed and Christian cares about her, that’s all this is, I rationalize. But in the back of
my mind, my subconscious is shaking her head sadly.
It’s more than that. Leila was able to fulfill his needs in a way I cannot. The thought is
depressing.
I try to focus on all we’ve done in the last few days—his declaration of love, his flirty humor, his
playfulness. But Elena’s words keep coming back to taunt me. It’s true what they say about
eavesdroppers.
Don’t you miss it... your playroom?
I finish my beer in record time, and Ethan lines up another. I am not much of a companion, but to
his credit he stays with me, chatting, trying to lift my spirits, talking about Barbados, and Kate and
Elliot’s antics, which is wonderfully distracting. But it’s just that—a distraction.
My mind, my heart, my soul are all still in that apartment with my Fifty Shades and the woman
who used to be his submissive. A woman who thinks she still loves him. A woman who looks like me.
During our third beer, a large cruiser with heavily-tinted windows pulls up next to the Audi in
front of the apartment. I recognize Dr. Flynn as he climbs out, accompanied by a woman dressed in
what look like pale blue scrubs. I glimpse Taylor as he lets them in through the front door.
“Who’s that?” Ethan asks.
“His name’s Dr. Flynn. Christian knows him.”
“What kind of doctor?”
“A shrink.”
“Oh.”
We both watch, and a few minutes later they are back. Christian is carrying Leila who is wrapped
in a blanket. What? I watch horrified as they all climb into the cruiser, and it speeds away.
Ethan glances at me sympathetically, and I feel desolate, completely desolate.
“Can I have something a bit stronger?” I ask Ethan, my voice small.
“Sure. What would you like?”
“A brandy. Please.”
Ethan nods and retreats to the bar. I gaze through the window at the front door. Moments later
Taylor emerges, climbs into the Audi, and heads off toward Escala... after Christian? I don’t know.
Ethan places a large brandy in front of me.
“Come on, Steele. Let’s get drunk.”
Sounds like the best offer I’ve had in a while. We clink glasses, and I take a gulp of the burning
amber liquid, the fiery heat a welcome distraction from the hideous blossoming pain in my heart.
It’s late, and I feel fuzzy. Ethan and I are locked out of the apartment. He insists on walking me
back to Escala, but he won’t stay. He’s called the friend he met earlier for a drink and arranged to
crash with him.
“So, this is where the Mogul lives.” Ethan whistles through his teeth, impressed.
I nod.
“Sure you don’t want me to come in with you?” he asks.
“No, I need to face this—or just go to bed.”
“See you tomorrow?”
“Yes. Thanks, Ethan.” I hug him.
“You’ll work it out, Steele,” he murmurs against my ear. He releases me and watches while I
head into the building.“Laters,” he calls. I offer him a weak smile and a wave then press the button to call the elevator.
The elevator doors open, and I step into Christian’s apartment. Taylor is not waiting, which is
unusual. Opening the double doors, I head toward the great room. Christian is on the phone, pacing the
room near the piano.
“She’s here,” he snaps. He turns to glare at me as he switches off his phone. “Where the fuck
have you been?” he growls but doesn’t make a move toward me.
Holy crap, he’s angry with me? He’s the one that just spent God knows how long with his loony
ex-girlfriend, and he’sangry withme?
“Have you been drinking?” he asks, appalled.
“A bit.” I didn’t think it was that obvious.
He gasps and runs his hand through his hair. “I told you to come back here.” His voice is
menacingly quiet. “It’s now fifteen after ten. I’ve been worried about you.”
“I went for a drink or three with Ethan while you attended to your ex,” I hiss at him. “I didn’t
know how long you were going to be... with her.”
He narrows his eyes and takes a few paces toward me but stops.
“Why do you say it that like that?”
I shrug and stare down at my fingers.
“Ana, what’s wrong?” And for the first time, I hear something other than anger in his voice.
What? Fear?
I swallow, trying to work out what I want to say. “Where’s Leila?” I ask looking up at him.
“In a psychiatric hospital in Fremont,” he says, and his face is scrutinizing mine. “Ana, what is
it?” He moves toward me until he’s standing right in front of me. “What’s wrong?” he breathes.
I shake my head. “I’m no good for you.”
“What?” he breathes, his eyes widening in alarm. “Why do you think that? How can you possibly
think that?”
“I can’t be everything you need.”
“You are everything I need.
“Just seeing you with her...” My voice trails off.
“Why do you do this to me? This is not about you, Ana. It’s about her.” He takes a sharp breath,
running his hand through his hair again. “At the moment she’s a very sick girl.”
“But I felt it... what you had together.”
“What? No.” He reaches for me, and I step back instinctively. He drops his hand, blinking at me.
He looks as though he’s seized with panic.
“You’re running?” he whispers as his eyes widen with fear.
I say nothing as I try to collect my scattered thoughts.
“You can’t,” he pleads.
“Christian... I—” I struggle to collect my thoughts. What am I trying to say? I need time, time to
process this. Give me time.
“No. No!” he says.
“I...”
He looks wildly around the room. For inspiration? For divine intervention? I don’t know.
“You can’t go. Ana, I love you!”
“I love you, too, Christian, it’s just—”
“No... no!” he says in desperation and puts both hands on his head.
“Christian...”
“No,” he breathes, his eyes wide with panic, and suddenly he drops to his knees in front of me,
head bowed, long-fingered hands spread out on his thighs. He takes a deep breath and doesn’t move.What? “Christian, what are you doing?”
He continues to stare down, not looking at me.
“Christian!What are you doing?” My voice is high-pitched. He doesn’t move. “Christian, look at
me!” I command in panic.
His head sweeps up without hesitation, and he regards me passively with his cool gray gaze—
he’s almost serene... expectant.
Holy Fuck... Christian. The submissive.Christian on his knees at my feet, holding me with his steady gray gaze, is the most chilling and
sobering sight I have ever seen—more so than Leila and her gun. The vague alcoholic fuzziness I’m
suffering from evaporates in an instant and is replaced by a prickling scalp and a creeping sense of
doom as the blood drains from my face.
I inhale sharply with shock. No. No, this is wrong, so wrong and so disturbing.
“Christian, please, don’t do this. I don’t want this.”
He continues to regard me passively, not moving, saying nothing.
Oh fuck. My poor Fifty. My heart squeezes and twists. What the hell have I done to him? Tears
prick my eyes.
“Why are you doing this? Talk to me,” I whisper.
He blinks once.
“What would you like me to say?” he says softly, blandly, and for a moment I’m relieved that
he’s talking, but not like this—no. No.
Tears begin to ooze down my cheeks, and suddenly it is too much to see him in the same
prostrate position as the pathetic creature that was Leila. The image of a powerful man who’s really
still a little boy, who was horrifically abused and neglected, who feels unworthy of love from his
perfect family and his much-less-than perfect girlfriend... my lost boy... it’s heartbreaking.
Compassion, loss, and despair all swell in my heart, and I feel a choking sense of desperation. I
am going to have to fight to bring him back, to bring back my Fifty.
The thought of me dominating anyone is appalling. The thought of dominating Christian is
nauseating. It would make me like her—the woman who did this to him.
I shudder at that thought, fighting the bile in my throat. No way can I do that. No way do I want
that.
As my thoughts clear, I can see only one way. Not taking my eyes off his, I sink to my knees in
front of him.
The wooden floor is hard against my shins, and I dash my tears away roughly with the back of my
hand.
Like this, we are equals. We’re on a level. This is the only way I’m going to retrieve him.
His eyes widen fractionally as I stare up at him, but beyond that his expression and stance don’tchange.
“Christian, you don’t have to do this,” I plead. “I’m not going to run. I’ve told you and told you
and told you, I won’t run.” All that’s happened... it’s overwhelming. I just need some time to think...
some time to myself. Why do you always assume the worst?” My heart clenches again because I
know; it’s because he’s so doubting, so full of self-loathing.
Elena’s words come back to haunt me. “Does she know how negative you are about yourself?
About all your issues?”
Oh, Christian. Fear grips my heart once more and I start babbling, “I was going to suggest going
back to my apartment this evening. You never give me any time... time to just think things through,” I
sob, and a ghost of a frown crosses his face. “Just time to think. We barely know each other, and all
this baggage that comes with you... I need... I need time to think it through. And now that Leila is...
well, whatever she is... she’s off the streets and not a threat... I thought... I thought...” My voice trails
off and I stare at him. He regards me intently and I think he’s listening
“Seeing you with Leila...” I close my eyes as the painful memory of his interaction with his ex-
sub gnaws at me anew. “It was such a shock. I had a glimpse into how your life has been... and...” I
gaze down at my knotted fingers, tears still trickling down my cheeks. “This is about me not being
good enough for you. It was an insight into your life, and I am so scared you’ll get bored with me, and
then you’ll go... and I’ll end up like Leila... a shadow. Because I love you, Christian, and if you leave
me, it will be like a world without light. I’ll be in darkness. I don’t want to run. I’m just so frightened
you’ll leave me...”
I realize as I say these words to him—in the hope that he’s listening—what my real problem is. I
just don’t get why he likes me. I have never understood why he likes me.
“I don’t understand why you find me attractive,” I murmur. “You’re, well, you’re you... and
I’m...” I shrug and gaze up at him. “I just don’t see it. You’re beautiful and sexy and successful and
good and kind and caring—all those things—and I’m not. And I can’t do the things you like to do. I
can’t give you what you need. How could you be happy with me? How can I possibly hold you?” My
voice is a whisper as I express my darkest fears. “I have never understood what you see in me. And
seeing you with her, it brought all that home.” I sniff and wipe my nose with the back of my hand,
gazing at his impassive expression.
Oh, he’s so exasperating. Talk to me, damn it!
“Are you going to kneel here all night? Because I’ll do it, too,” I snap at him.
I think his expression softens—maybe he looks vaguely amused. But it’s so hard to tell.
I could reach across and touch him, but this would be a gross abuse of the position he’s put me in.
I don’t want that, but I don’t know what he wants, or what he’s trying to say to me. I just don’t
understand.
“Christian, please, please... talk to me,” I beseech him, wringing my hands in my lap. I am
uncomfortable on my knees, but I continue to kneel, staring into his serious, beautiful, gray eyes, and I
wait.
And wait.
And wait.
“Please,” I beg once more.
His intense gaze darkens suddenly and he blinks.
“I was so scared,” he whispers.
Oh, thank the Lord! Inside, my subconscious staggers back into her armchair, sagging with relief,
and takes a large swig of gin.
He’s talking! Gratitude overwhelms me, and I swallow, trying to contain my emotion and thefresh bout of tears that threatens.
His voice is soft and low. “When I saw Ethan arrive outside, I knew someone had let you into
your apartment. Both Taylor and I leapt out of the car. We knew and to see her there like that with you
—and armed. I think I died a thousand deaths, Ana. Someone threatening you... all my worst fears
realized. I was so angry, with her, with you, with Taylor, with myself.”
He shakes his head revealing his agony. “I didn’t know how volatile she would be. I didn’t know
what to do. I didn’t know how she’d react.” He stops and frowns. “And then she gave me a clue; she
looked so contrite. And I just knew what I had to do.” He pauses, gazing at me, trying to gauge my
reaction.
“Go on,” I whisper.
He swallows. “Seeing her in that state, knowing that I might have something to do with her
mental breakdown...” He closes his eyes once more. “She was always so mischievous and lively.” He
shudders and takes a rasping breath, almost like a sob. This is torture to listen to, but I kneel, attentive,
lapping up this insight.
“She might have harmed you. And it would have been my fault.” His eyes drift off, filled with
uncomprehending horror, and he’s silent once more.
“But she didn’t,” I whisper. “And you weren’t responsible for her being in that state, Christian.” I
blink up at him, encouraging him to continue.
Then it dawns on me afresh that everything he did was to keep me safe, and perhaps Leila, too,
because he also cares for her. But how much does he care for her? The question lingers in my head,
unwelcome. He says he loves me, but then he was so harsh, throwing me out of my own apartment.
“I just wanted you gone,” he murmurs, with his uncanny ability to read my thoughts. “I wanted
you away from the danger, and... You. Just. Wouldn’t. Go,” he hisses through clenched teeth and
shakes his head. His exasperation is palpable.
He gazes at me intently. “Anastasia Steele, you are the most stubborn woman I know.” He closes
his eyes and shakes his head once more in disbelief.
Oh, he’s back. I breathe a long, cleansing sigh of relief.
He opens his eyes again, and his expression is forlorn—sincere. “You weren’t going to run?” he
asks.
“No!”
He closes his eyes again and his whole body relaxes. When he opens his eyes, I can see his pain
and anguish.
“I thought—” He stops. “This is me, Ana. All of me... and I’m all yours. What do I have to do to
make you realize that? To make you see that I want you any way I can get you. That I love you.”
“I love you, too, Christian, and to see you like this is...” I choke and my tears start afresh. “I
thought I’d broken you.”
“Broken? Me? Oh no, Ana. Just the opposite.” He reaches out and takes my hand. “You’re my
lifeline,” he whispers, and he kisses my knuckles before pressing my palm against his.
With his eyes wide and full of fear, he gently tugs my hand and places it on his chest over his
heart—in the forbidden zone. His breathing quickens. His heart is beating a frantic, pounding tattoo
beneath my fingers. He doesn’t take his eyes off mine; his jaw is tense, his teeth clenched.
I gasp. Oh my Fifty! He’s letting me touch him. And it’s like all the air in my lungs has vaporized
—gone. The blood is pounding in my ears as the rhythm of my heart rises to match his.
He releases my hand, leaving it in place over his heart. I flex my fingers slightly, feeling the
warmth of his skin beneath the thin fabric of his shirt. He’s holding his breath. I can’t bear it. I make
to move my hand.
“No,” he says quickly and places his hand once more over mine, pressing my fingers against him.“Don’t.”
Emboldened by these two words, I shuffle closer so our knees are touching and tentatively raise
my other hand so that he knows exactly what I intend to do. His eyes grow wider but he doesn’t stop
me.
Gently I start to undo the buttons on his shirt. It’s tricky with one hand. I flex my fingers beneath
his hand and he lets go, allowing me to use both hands to undo his shirt. My eyes don’t leave his as I
pull his shirt open, revealing his chest.
He swallows, and his lips part as his breathing increases, and I sense his rising panic, but he
doesn’t pull away. Is he still in sub mode? I have no idea.
Should I do this? I don’t want to hurt him, physically or mentally. The sight of him like this,
offering himself to me, has been a wake-up call.
I reach up, and my hand hovers over his chest, and I stare at him... asking his permission. Very
subtly he tilts his head to one side, steeling himself in anticipation of my touch, and the tension
radiates from him, but this time it’s not in anger—it’s in fear.
I hesitate. Can I really do this to him?
“Yes,” he breathes—again with the weird ability to answer my unspoken questions.
I extend my fingertips into his chest hair and lightly brush them down his sternum. He closes his
eyes, and his face creases as if he’s experiencing intolerable pain. It’s unbearable to witness, so I lift
my fingers immediately, but he quickly grabs my hand and replaces it firmly, flat on his bare chest so
that the hair tickles my palm.
“No,” he says, his voice strained. “I need to.”
His eyes are screwed up so tightly. This must be agony. It’s truly tormenting to watch. Carefully I
let my fingers stroke across his chest to his heart, marveling at the feel of him, terrified that this is a
step too far.
He opens his eyes, and they are gray fire, blazing at me.
Holy cow. His look is blistering, feral, beyond intense, and his breathing is rapid. It stirs my
blood. I squirm under his gaze.
He hasn’t stopped me, so I run my fingertips across his chest again, and his mouth goes slack.
He’s panting, and I don’t know if it’s from fear, or something else.
I’ve wanted to kiss him there for so long that I lean up on my knees and hold his gaze for a
moment, making my intention perfectly clear. Then I bend and gently plant a soft kiss above his heart,
feeling his warm, sweet-smelling skin beneath my lips.
His strangled groan moves me so much that I sit back on my heels, fearful of what I’ll see on his
face. His eyes are screwed tightly shut, but he hasn’t moved.
“Again,” he whispers, and I lean into his chest once more, this time to kiss one of his scars. He
gasps, and I kiss another and another. He groans loudly, and suddenly his arms are around me, and his
hand is in my hair, pulling my head up painfully so that my lips meet his insistent mouth. And we’re
kissing, my fingers knotting into his hair.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes, and he twists and pulls me down on to the floor so that I am underneath
him. I bring my hands up to cup his beautiful face, and in that moment, I feel his tears.
He’s crying... no. No!
“Christian, please, don’t cry. I meant it when I said I’d never leave you. I did. If I gave you any
other impression, I’m so sorry... please, please forgive me. I love you. I will always love you.”
He looms over me, gazing down into my face, and his expression is so pained.
“What is it?”
His eyes grow larger.
“What is this secret that makes you think I’ll run for the hills? That makes you so determined tobelieve I’ll go?” I plead, my voice tremulous. “Tell me, Christian, please...”
He sits up, though this time he crosses his legs and I follow suit, my legs outstretched. Vaguely I
wonder if we can get off the floor? But I don’t want to interrupt his train of thought. He’s finally going
to confide in me.
He gazes down at me, and he looks utterly desolate. Oh shit—it’s bad.
“Ana...” He pauses, searching for the words, his expression pained... Oh? Where the hell is this
going?
He takes a deep breath and swallows. “I’m a sadist, Ana. I like to whip little brown-haired girls
like you because you all look like the crack whore—my birth mother. I’m sure you can guess why.”
He says it in a rush as if he’s had the sentence in his head for days and days and is desperate to be rid
of it.
My world stops. Oh no.
This is not what I expected. This is bad. Really bad. I gaze at him, trying to understand the
implication of what he’s just said. It does explain why we all look the same.
My immediate thought is that Leila was right—“Master is dark.”
I recall the first conversation I had with him about his tendencies when we were in the Red Room
of Pain.
“You said you weren’t a sadist,” I whisper, desperately trying to understand... make some excuse
for him.
“No, I said I was a Dominant. If I lied to you, it was a lie of omission. I’m sorry.” He looks
briefly down at his manicured fingernails.
I think he’s mortified. Mortified about lying to me? Or about what he is?
“When you asked me that question, I had envisioned a very different relationship between us,” he
murmurs. I can tell by his gaze that he’s terrified.
Then it hits me like a wrecking ball. If he’s a sadist, he reallyneedsall that whipping and caning
shit. Oh fuck. I put my head in my hands.
“So it’s true,” I whisper, glancing up at him. “I can’t give you what you need.” This is it—this
really does mean we are incompatible.
The world starts falling away at my feet, collapsing around me as panic grips my throat. This is
it. We can’t do this.
He frowns. “No, No, No. Ana. No. You can. You do give me what I need.” He clenches his fists.
“Please believe me,” he murmurs, his words an impassioned plea.
“I don’t know what to believe, Christian. This is so fucked-up,” I whisper, my throat hoarse and
aching as it closes in, choking me with unshed tears.
His eyes are wide and luminous when he looks at me again.
“Ana, believe me. After I punished you and you left me, my worldview changed. I wasn’t joking
when I said I would avoid ever feeling like that again.” He gazes at me with pained entreaty. “When
you said you loved me, it was a revelation. No one’s ever said it to me before, and it was as if I’d laid
something to rest—or maybe you’d laid it to rest, I don’t know. Dr. Flynn and I are still in deep
discussion about it.”
Oh. Hope flares briefly in my heart. Perhaps we’ll be okay. I want us to be okay. Don’t I? “What
does that all mean?” I whisper.
“It means I don’t need it. Not now.”
What? “How do you know? How can you be so sure?”
“I just know. The thought of hurting you... in any real way... it’s abhorrent to me.”
“I don’t understand. What about rulers and spanking and all that kinky fuckery?”He runs a hand through his hair and almost smiles but instead sighs ruefully. “I’m talking about
the heavy shit, Anastasia. You should see what I can do with a cane or a cat.”
My mouth drops open, stunned. “I’d rather not.”
“I know. If you wanted to do that, then fine... but you don’t and I get it. I can’t do all that shit
with you if you don’t want to. I told you once before, you have all the power. And now, since you
came back, I don’t feel that compulsion, at all.”
I gape at him for a moment trying to take this all in. “When we met, that’s what you wanted,
though?”
“Yes, undoubtedly.”
“How can your compulsion just go, Christian? Like I’m some kind of panacea, and you’re—for
want of a better word—cured? I don’t get it.”
He sighs once more. “I wouldn’t say cured... You don’t believe me?”
“I just find it—unbelievable. Which is different.”
“If you’d never left me, then I probably wouldn’t feel this way. You walking out on me was the
best thing you ever did... for us. It made me realize how much I want you, just you, and I mean it when
I say I’ll take you any way I can have you.”
I gaze at him. Can I believe this? My head hurts just trying to think this all through, and deep
down I feel... numb.
“You’re still here. I thought you would be out of the door by now,” he whispers.
“Why? Because I might think you’re a sicko for whipping and fucking women who look like your
mother? Whatever would give you that impression?” I hiss at him, lashing out.
He blanches at my harsh words.
“Well, I wouldn’t have put it quite like that, but yes,” he says, his eyes wide and hurt.
His expression is sobering and I regret my outburst. I frown, feeling a pang of guilt.
Oh, what am I going to do? I gaze at him and he looks contrite, sincere... he looks like my Fifty.
And unbidden I recall the photograph in his childhood bedroom, and in that moment realize why
the woman in it looked so familiar. She looked like him. She must have been his biological mother.
His easy dismissal of her comes to mind: No one of consequence... She’s responsible for all this...
and I look like her... Fuck!
He stares at me, eyes raw, and I know he’s waiting for my next move. He seems genuine. He’s
said he loves me, but I’m really confused.
This is all so fucked-up. He’s reassured me about Leila, but now I know with more certainty than
ever how she was able to give him his kicks. The thought is wearying and unpalatable. I am so tired of
all this.
“Christian, I’m exhausted. Can we discuss this tomorrow? I want to go to bed.”
He blinks at me in surprise. “You’re not going?”
“Do you want me to go?”
“No! I thought you would leave once you knew.”
All the times he’s alluded to me leaving once I knew his darkest secrets flash through my mind...
and now I know. Shit. Master is dark.
Should I leave? I gaze at him, this crazy man that I love, yes love.
Can I leave him? I left him once before, and it nearly broke me... and him. I love him. I know that
in spite of this revelation.
“Don’t leave me,” he whispers.
“Oh, for crying out loud—no! I am not going to go!” I shout and it’s cathartic. There, I’ve said it.
I am not leaving.“Really?” His eyes widen.
“What can I do to make you understand I will not run? What can I say?”
He gazes at me, revealing his fear and anguish again. He swallows. “There is one thing you can
do.”
“What?” I snap.
“Marry me,” he whispers.
What? Did he really just—
For the second time in less than half an hour my world stops.
Holy fuck. I stare at the deeply fucked-up man I love. I can’t believe what he’s just said.
Marriage? He’s proposing marriage? Is he kidding? I can’t help it—a small, nervous,
disbelieving giggle erupts from deep inside. I bite my lip to stop it from turning into full-scale
hysterical laughter and fail miserably. I lie back flat on the floor and surrender myself to the laughter,
laughing as I’ve never laughed before, huge healing cathartic howls of laughter.
And for a moment I am on my own, looking down at this absurd situation, a giggling,
overwhelmed girl beside a beautiful fucked-up boy. I drape my arm across my eyes, as my laughter
turns to scalding tears. No, no... this is too much.
As the hysteria subsides, Christian gently lifts my arm off my face. I turn and gaze up at him.
He’s leaning over me. His mouth is twisted with wry amusement, but his eyes are a burning gray,
maybe wounded. Oh no.
He gently wipes away a stray tear with the back of his knuckles. “You find my proposal amusing,
Miss Steele?”
Oh, Fifty! Reaching up, I caress his cheek tenderly, enjoying the feel of the stubble beneath my
fingers. Lord, I love this man.
“Mr. Grey... Christian. Your sense of timing is without doubt...” I gaze up at him as words fail
me.
He smirks at me, but the crinkling around his eyes shows me that he’s hurt. It’s sobering.
“You’re cutting me to the quick here, Ana. Will you marry me?”
I sit up and lean over him, placing my hands on his knees. I stare into his lovely face. “Christian,
I’ve met your psycho ex with a gun, been thrown out of my apartment, had you go thermonuclear Fifty
on me—”
He opens his mouth to speak, but I hold up my hand. He obediently shuts his mouth.
“You’ve just revealed some, quite frankly, shocking information about yourself, and now you’ve
asked me to marry you.”
He moves his head from side to side as if considering the facts. He’s amused. Thank heavens.
“Yes, I think that’s a fair and accurate summary of the situation,” he says dryly.
I shake my head at him. “Whatever happened to delayed gratification?”
“I got over it, and I’m now a firm advocate of instant gratification. Carpe diem,Ana,” he
whispers.
“Look Christian, I’ve known you for about three minutes, and there’s so much more I need to
know. I’ve had too much to drink, I’m hungry, I’m tired, and I want to go to bed. I need to consider
your proposal just as I considered that contract you gave me. And”—I press my lips together to show
my displeasure but also to lighten the mood between us—“that wasn’t the most romantic proposal.”
He tilts his head to one side and his lips quirk up in a smile. “Fair point well made, as ever, Miss
Steele,” he breathes, his voice laced with relief. “So that’s not a no?”
I sigh. “No, Mr. Grey, it’s not a no, but it’s not a yes either. You’re only doing this because
you’re scared, and you don’t trust me.”“No, I’m doing this because I’ve finally met someone I want to spend the rest of my life with.”
Oh. My heart skips a beat and inside I melt. How is it that in the middle of the most fucked-up
situations he can say the most romantic things? My mouth pops open in shock.
“I never thought that would happen to me,” he continues, his expression radiating pure undiluted
sincerity.
I gape at him, searching for the right words.
“Can I think about it... please? And think about everything else that’s happened today? What
you’ve just told me? You asked for patience and faith. Well, back at you, Grey. I need those now.”
His eyes search mine and after a beat, he leans forward and tucks my hair behind my ear.
“I can live with that.” He kisses me quickly on the lips. “Not very romantic, eh?” He raises his
eyebrows, and I give him an admonishing shake of my head. “Hearts and flowers?” he asks softly.
I nod and he gives me a slight smile.
“You’re hungry?”
“Yes.”
“You didn’t eat.” His eyes frost and his jaw hardens.
“No, I didn’t eat.” I sit back on my heels and regard him passively. “Being thrown out of my
apartment after witnessing my boyfriend interacting intimately with his ex-submissive considerably
suppressed my appetite.” I glare at him and fist my hands on my hips.
Christian shakes his head and rises gracefully to his feet. Oh, finally we can get off the floor. He
holds his hand out to me.
“Let me fix you something to eat,” he says.
“Can’t I just go to bed?” I mutter wearily as I place my hand in his.
He pulls me up. I am stiff. He gazes down at me, his expression soft.
“No, you need to eat. Come.” Bossy Christian is back, and it’s a relief.
He leads me to the kitchen area and ushers me toward a bar stool as he heads to the fridge. I
glance at my watch. Jeez, nearly eleven thirty and I have to get up for work in the morning.
“Christian, I’m really not hungry.”
He studiously ignores me as he ferrets through the enormous fridge. “Cheese?” he asks.
“Not at this hour.”
“Pretzels?”
“In the fridge? No,” I snap.
He turns and grins at me. “You don’t like pretzels?”
“Not at eleven thirty. Christian, I’m going to bed. You can rummage around in your refrigerator
for the rest of the night if you want. I’m tired, and I’ve had far too interesting a day. A day I’d like to
forget.” I slide off the stool and he scowls at me, but right now I don’t care. I want to go to bed—I’m
exhausted.
“Macaroni and cheese?” He holds up a white bowl lidded with foil. He looks so hopeful and
endearing.
“You like macaroni and cheese?” I ask.
He nods enthusiastically, and my heart melts. He looks so young all of a sudden. Who would have
thought? Christian Grey likes nursery food.
“You want some?” he asks, sounding hopeful. I can’t resist him and I’m hungry.
I nod and give him a weak smile. His answering grin is breathtaking. He takes the foil off the
bowl and pops it into the microwave. I perch back on the stool and watch the beauty that is Mr.
Christian Grey—the man who wants to marry me—move gracefully and with ease around his kitchen.
“So you know how to use the microwave then?” I tease softly.
“If it’s in a packet, I can usually do something with it. It’s real food I have a problem with.”I cannot believe this is the same man who was on his knees in front of me not half an hour before.
He’s his usual mercurial self. He sets out plates, cutlery, and placemats on the breakfast bar.
“It’s very late,” I mutter.
“Don’t go to work tomorrow.”
“I have to go to work tomorrow. My boss is leaving for New York.”
Christian frowns. “Do you want to go there this weekend?”
“I checked the weather forecast, and it looks like rain,” I say, shaking my head.
“Oh, so what do you want to do?”
The microwave’s ping announces that our supper is warmed through.
“I just want to get through one day at a time at the moment. All this excitement is... tiring.” I
raise an eyebrow at him, which he judiciously ignores.
Christian places the white bowl in between our place settings and takes his seat beside me. He
looks deep in thought, distracted. I dish the macaroni onto our plates. It smells divine, and my mouth
waters in anticipation. I am famished.
“Sorry about Leila,” he murmurs.
“Why are you sorry?” Mmm, the macaroni tastes as good as it smells. My stomach grumbles
gratefully.
“It must have been a terrible shock for you, finding her in your apartment. Taylor swept it earlier
himself. He’s very upset.”
“I don’t blame Taylor.”
“Neither do I. He’s been out looking for you.”
“Really? Why?”
“I didn’t know where you were. You left your purse, your phone. I couldn’t even track you.
Where did you go?” he asks. His voice is soft, but there’s an ominous undercurrent to his words.
“Ethan and I just went to a bar across the street. So I could watch what was happening.”
“I see.” The atmosphere between us has changed subtly. It’s no longer light.
Okay, well... two can play that game. Let’s just bring this back to you, Fifty. Trying to sound
nonchalant, wanting to assuage my burning curiosity but dreading the answer, I ask, “So what did you
do with Leila in the apartment?”
I glance up at him, and he freezes with his forkful of macaroni suspended in midair. Oh no, that’s
not good.
“You really want to know?”
A knot tightens in my gut and my appetite vanishes. “Yes,” I whisper. Do you? Do you really?
My subconscious has thrown her empty bottle of gin on the floor and is sitting up in her armchair,
glaring at me in horror.
Christian’s mouth flattens into a line, and he hesitates. “We talked, and I gave her a bath.” His
voice is hoarse, and he continues quickly when I make no response. “And I dressed her in some of
your clothes. I hope you don’t mind. But she was filthy.”
Holy fuck. He bathed her?
What an inappropriate thing to do. I’m reeling, staring down at my uneaten macaroni. The sight
of it now makes me nauseous.
Try to rationalize this, my subconscious coaches. That cool, intellectual part of my brain knows
that he just did that because she was dirty, but it’s too hard. My fragile jealous self can’t bear it.
Suddenly I want to cry—not succumb to ladylike tears that trickle decorously down my cheeks,
but howling at the moon crying. I take a deep breath to suppress the urge, but my throat is arid and
uncomfortable from my unshed tears and sobs.“It was all I could do, Ana,” he says softly.
“You still have feelings for her?”
“No!” he says, appalled, and closes his eyes, his expression one of anguish. I turn away, staring
once more at my nauseating food. I can’t bear to look at him.
“To see her like that—so different, so broken. I care about her, one human being to another.” He
shrugs as if to shake off an unpleasant memory. Jeez, is he expecting my sympathy?
“Ana, look at me.”
I can’t. I know that if I do, I will burst into tears. This is just too much to absorb. I’m like an
overflowing tank of gasoline—full, beyond capacity. There is no room for any more. I simply cannot
cope with any more crap. I will combust and explode, and it will be ugly if I try. Jeez!
Christian caring for his ex-sub in such an intimate fashion—the image flashes through my brain.
Bathing her, for fuck’s sake—naked. A harsh, painful shudder wracks my body.
“Ana.”
“What?”
“Don’t. It doesn’t mean anything. It was like caring for a child, a broken, shattered child,” he
mutters.
What the hell would he know about caring for a child? This was a woman he had a very full-on,
deviant sexual relationship with.
Oh, this hurts. I take a deep, steadying breath. Or perhaps he’s referring to himself. He’s the
broken child. That makes more sense... or maybe it makes no sense at all. Oh, this is so fucked-up, and
suddenly I’m bone crushingly tired. I need sleep.
“Ana?”
I stand, take my plate to the sink, and scrape the contents into the trash.
“Ana, please.”
I whirl around and face him. “Just stop, Christian! Just stop with the ‘Ana, please’!” I shout at
him, and my tears start to trickle down my face. “I’ve had enough of all this shit today. I am going to
bed. I am tired and emotional. Now let me be.”
I turn on my heel and practically run to the bedroom, taking with me the memory of his wide-
eyed, shocked stare. Nice to know I can shock him, too. I strip out of my clothes in double-quick time,
and after rifling through his chest of drawers, drag on one of his T-shirts and head for the bathroom.
I gaze at myself in the mirror, hardly recognizing the gaunt, pink-eyed, blotchy-cheeked harridan
staring back at me, and it’s too much. I sink to the floor and surrender to the overwhelming emotion I
can no longer contain, sobbing huge chest-wrenching sobs, finally letting my tears flow unrestrained.“Hey,” Christian’s says gently as he pulls me into his arms, “please don’t cry, Ana, please,” he begs.
He’s on the bathroom floor, and I am in his lap. I put my arms around him and weep into his neck.
Cooing softly into my hair, he gently strokes my back, my head.
“I’m sorry, baby,” he whispers, and that makes me cry harder and hug him tighter.
We sit like this forever. Eventually, when I’m all cried out, Christian staggers to his feet, holding
me, and carries me into his room where he lays me down in the bed. In a few moments, he’s beside me
and the lights are off. He pulls me into his arms, hugging me tightly, and I finally drift off into a dark
and troubled sleep.
I awake with a jolt. My head is fuzzy and I’m too warm. Christian is wrapped around me like a vine.
He grumbles in his sleep as I slip out of his arms, but he doesn’t wake. Sitting up I glance at the alarm
clock. It’s three in the morning. I need an Advil and a drink. I swing my legs out of bed and make my
way to the kitchen in the great room.
In the fridge, I find a carton of orange juice and pour myself a glass. Hmm... it’s delicious, and
my fuzzy head eases immediately. I hunt through the cupboards looking for some painkillers and
eventually come across a plastic box full of meds. I sink two Advil and pour myself another orange
juice.
Wandering to the great wall of glass, I look out on a sleeping Seattle. The lights twinkle and wink
beneath Christian’s castle in the sky, or should I say fortress? I press my forehead against the cool
window—it’s a relief. I have so much to think about after all the revelations of yesterday. I place my
back against the glass and slide down onto the floor. The great room is cavernous in the dark, the only
light coming from the three lamps above the kitchen island.
Could I live here, married to Christian? After all that he’s done here? All the history this place
holds for him?
Marriage. It’s almost unbelievable and completely unexpected. But then everything about
Christian is unexpected. My lips quirk up with irony. Christian Grey, expect the unexpected—Fifty
Shades of Fucked-Up.My smile fades. I look like his mother. This wounds me, deeply, and the air leaves my lungs in a
rush. We all look like his mom.
How the hell do I move on from the disclosure of that little secret? No wonder he didn’t want to
tell me. But surely he can’t remember much of his mother. I wonder once more, if I should talk to Dr.
Flynn. Would Christian let me? Perhaps he could fill in the gaps.
I shake my head. I feel world weary, but I’m enjoying the calm serenity of the great room and its
beautiful works of art—cold and austere, but in their own way, still beautiful in the shadows and
surely worth a fortune. Could I live here? For better, for worse? In sickness and in health? I close my
eyes, lean my head back against the glass, and take a deep, cleansing breath.
The peaceful tranquility is shattered by a visceral, primeval cry that makes every single hair on
my body stand to attention. Christian! Holy fuck—what’s happened? I am on my feet, running back to
the bedroom before the echoes of that horrible sound have died away, my heart thumping with fear.
I flip one of the light switches, and Christian’s bedside light comes to life. He’s tossing and
turning, writhing in agony. No! He cries out again, and the eerie, devastating sound lances through me
anew.
Shit—a nightmare!
“Christian!” I lean over him, grab his shoulders, and shake him awake. He opens his eyes, and
they are wild and vacant, scanning quickly round the empty room before coming back to rest on me.
“You left, you left, you must have left,” he mumbles—his wide-eyed stare becoming accusatory
—and he looks so lost, it wrenches at my heart. Poor Fifty.
“I’m here.” I sit down on the bed beside him. “I’m here,” I murmur softly in an effort to reassure
him. I reach out to place my palm on the side of his face, trying to soothe him.
“You were gone,” he whispers rapidly. His eyes are still wild and frightened, but he seems to be
calming.
“I went to get a drink. I was thirsty.”
He closes his eyes and rubs his face. When he opens them again, he looks so desolate.
“You’re here. Oh, thank God.” He reaches for me, and grabbing me tightly, he pulls me down on
the bed beside him.
“I just went for a drink,” I murmur.
Oh, the intensity of his fear... I can feel it. His T-shirt is drenched in sweat, and his heartbeat is
pounding as he hugs me close. He’s gazing at me as if reassuring himself that I am really here. I
gently stroke his hair and then his cheek.
“Christian, please. I’m here. I’m not going anywhere,” I say soothingly.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes. He grasps my chin to hold me in place, and then his mouth is on mine.
Desire sweeps through him, and unbidden my body responds—it’s so tied and attuned to him. His lips
are at my ear, my throat, then back at my mouth, his teeth gently pulling at my lower lip, his hand
traveling up my body from my hip to my breast, dragging my T-shirt up. Caressing me, feeling his
way through the dips and shallows of my skin, he elicits the same familiar reaction, his touch sending
shivers through me. I moan as his hand cups my breast and his fingers tighten over my nipple.
“I want you,” he murmurs.
“I’m here for you. Only you, Christian.”
He groans and kisses me once more, passionately, with a fervor and desperation I’ve not felt from
him before. Grabbing the hem of his T-shirt, I tug and he helps me pull it off over his head. Kneeling
between my legs, he hastily pulls me upright and drags my T-shirt off.
His eyes are serious, wanting, full of dark secrets—exposed. He folds his hands around my face
and kisses me, and we sink down into the bed once more, his thigh between both of mine so that he’shalf-lying on top of me. His erection is rigid against my hip through his boxer briefs. He wants me,
but his words from earlier choose this moment to come back and haunt me, what he said about his
mother. And it’s like a bucket of cold water on my libido. Fuck. I can’t do this. Not now.
“Christian... Stop. I can’t do this,” I whisper urgently against his mouth, my hands pushing on his
upper arms.
“What? What’s wrong?” he murmurs and starts kissing my neck, running the tip of his tongue
lightly down my throat. Oh...
“No, please. I can’t do this, not now. I need some time, please.”
“Oh, Ana, don’t overthink this,” he whispers as he nips my earlobe.
“Ah!” I gasp, feeling it in my groin, and my body bows, betraying me. This is so confusing.
“I am just the same, Ana. I love you and I need you. Touch me. Please.” He rubs his nose against
mine, and his quiet heartfelt plea moves me and I melt.
Touch him. Touch him while we make love. Oh my.
He rears up over me, gazing down, and in the half-light from the dimmed bedside light, I can tell
that he’s waiting, waiting for my decision, and he’s caught in my spell.
I reach up and tentatively place my hand on the soft patch of hair over his sternum. He gasps and
scrunches his eyes closed as if in pain, but I don’t take my hand away this time. I move it up to his
shoulders, feeling the tremor run through him. He groans, and I pull him down to me and place both
my hands on his back, where I’ve never touched him before, on his shoulder blades, holding him to
me. His strangled moan arouses me like nothing else.
He buries his head in my neck, kissing and sucking and biting me, before trailing his nose up my
chin and kissing me, his tongue possessing my mouth, his hands moving over my body once more. His
lips move down... down... down to my breasts, worshipping as they go, and my hands stay on his
shoulders and his back, enjoying the flex and ripple of his finely honed muscles, his skin still damp
from his nightmare. His lips close over my nipple, pulling and tugging, so that it rises to greet his
glorious skilled mouth.
I groan and run my fingernails across his back. And he gasps, a strangled moan.
“Oh, fuck, Ana,” he chokes, and it’s half cry, half groan. It tears at my heart, but also deep inside
me, tightening all the muscles below my waist. Oh, what I can do to him! My inner goddess is
writhing with want and I’m panting now, matching his tortured breaths with my own.
His hand travels south, over my belly, down to my sex—and his fingers are on me, then in me. I
groan as he moves his fingers around inside me, in that way, and I push my pelvis up to welcome his
touch.
“Ana,” he breathes. He suddenly releases me and sits up; he removes his boxer briefs and leans
over to the bedside table to grab a foil packet. His eyes are a blazing gray as he passes me the condom.
“You want to do this? You can still say no. You can always say no,” he murmurs.
“Don’t give me a chance to think, Christian. I want you, too.” I rip the packet open with my teeth
as he kneels between my legs, and with trembling fingers I slide it on to him.
“Steady,” he says. “You are going to unman me, Ana.”
I marvel at what I can do to this man with my touch. He stretches out over me, and for now my
doubts are pushed down and locked away in the dark, scary depths at the back of my mind. I’m
intoxicated with this man, my man, my Fifty Shades. He shifts suddenly, completely taking me by
surprise, so I am on top. Whoa.
“You—take me,” he murmurs, his eyes glowing with a feral intensity.
Oh my, and slowly, oh-so-slowly, I sink down on to him. He tilts his head back and closes his
eyes as he groans. I grab his hands and start to move, reveling in the fullness of my possession,
reveling in his reaction, watching him unravel beneath me. I feel like a goddess. I lean down and kisshis chin, running my teeth along his stubbled jaw. He tastes delicious. He clasps my hips and steadies
my rhythm, slow and easy.
“Ana, touch me... please.”
Oh. I lean forward and steady myself with my hands on his chest. And he calls out, his cry almost
a sob, and he thrusts deep inside me.
“Ahh,” I whimper and run my fingernails gently over his chest, through the hair there, and he
groans loudly and twists abruptly so I am once more beneath him.
“Enough.” He moans. “No more, please.” And it’s a heartfelt plea.
Reaching up, I clasp his face in my hands, feeling the dampness on his cheeks, and pull him down
to my lips so that I can kiss him. I curl my hands around his back.
He groans deep and low in his throat as he moves inside me, pushing me onward and upward, but
I can’t find my release. My head is too cloudy, cloudy with issues. I am too wrapped up in him.
“Let go, Ana,” he urges me.
“No.”
“Yes,” he snarls. He shifts slightly and gyrates his hips, again and again.
Jeez... argh!
“Come on baby, I need this. Give it to me.”
And I explode, my body a slave to his, and wrap myself around him, clinging to him like a vine
as he cries out my name, and climaxes with me, then collapses, his full weight pressing me into the
mattress.
I cradle Christian in my arms, his head on my chest, as we lie in the afterglow of our lovemaking. I
run my fingers through his hair as I listen to his breathing return to normal.
“Don’t ever leave me,” he whispers, and I roll my eyes in the full knowledge that he can’t see me.
“I know you’re rolling your eyes at me,” he murmurs, and I hear the trace of humor in his voice.
“You know me well,” I murmur.
“I’d like to know you better.”
“Back at you, Grey. What was your nightmare about?”
“The usual.”
“Tell me.”
He swallows and tenses before he sighs, a long drawn-out sigh. “I must be about three, and the
crack whore’s pimp is mad as hell again. He smokes and smokes, one cigarette after another, and he
can’t find an ashtray.” He stops, and I freeze as a creeping chill grips my heart.
“It hurt,” he says, “It’s the pain I remember. That’s what gives me nightmares. That and the fact
that she did nothing to stop him.”
Oh no. This is unbearable. I tighten my grip around him, my legs and arms holding him to me,
and I try not to let my despair choke me. How could anyone treat a child like that? He raises his head
and pins me with his intense gray gaze.
“You’re not like her. Don’t ever think that. Please.”
I blink back at him. It’s very reassuring to hear. He puts his head on my chest again, and I think
he’s finished, but he surprises me by continuing.
“Sometimes in the dreams she’s just lying on the floor. And I think she’s asleep. But she doesn’t
move. She never moves. And I’m hungry. Really hungry.”
Oh fuck.“There’s a loud noise and he’s back, and he hits me so hard, cursing the crack whore. His first
reaction was always to use his fists or his belt.”
“Is that why you don’t like to be touched?”
He closes his eyes and hugs me tighter. “That’s complicated,” he murmurs. He nuzzles me
between my breasts, inhaling deeply, trying to distract me.
“Tell me,” I prompt.
He sighs. “She didn’t love me. I didn’t love me. The only touch I knew was... harsh. It stemmed
from there. Flynn explains it better than I can.”
“Can I see Flynn?”
He raises his head to look at me. “Fifty Shades rubbing off on you?”
“And then some. I like how it’s rubbing off at the moment.” I wriggle provocatively underneath
him and he smiles.
“Yes, Miss Steele, I like that, too.” He leans up and kisses me. He gazes at me for a moment.
“You are so precious to me, Ana. I was serious about marrying you. We can get to know each
other then. I can look after you. You can look after me. We can have kids if you want. I will lay my
world at your feet, Anastasia. I want you, body and soul, forever. Please think about it.”
“I will think about it, Christian. I will,” I reassure him, reeling once more. Kids? Jeez. “I’d really
like to talk to Dr. Flynn, though, if you don’t mind.”
“Anything for you, baby. Anything. When would you like to see him?”
“Sooner rather than later.”
“Okay. I’ll make the arrangements in the morning.” He glances at the clock. “It’s late. We should
sleep.” He shifts to switch off his bedside light and pulls me against him.
I glance at the alarm clock. Crap, it’s three forty-five.
He curls his arms around me, his front to my back, and nuzzles my neck. “I love you, Ana Steele,
and I want you by my side, always,” he murmurs as he kisses my neck. “Now go to sleep.”
I close my eyes.
Reluctantly, I open my heavy eyelids and bright light fills the room. I groan. I feel cloudy,
disconnected from my leaden limbs, and Christian is wrapped around me like ivy. I’m too warm as per
usual. Surely it’s just five in the morning. The alarm has not gone off yet. I stretch out to free myself
from his heat, turning in his arms, and he mumbles something unintelligible in his sleep. I glance at
the clock. Eight forty-five.
Shit, I’m going to be late. Fuck. I scramble out of bed and dash to the bathroom. I am showered
and out within four minutes.
Christian sits up in bed watching me with ill-concealed amusement coupled with wariness as I
continue to dry myself while gathering my clothes. Perhaps he’s waiting for me to react to yesterday’s
revelations. Right now, I just don’t have time.
I check my clothes—black slacks, black shirt—all a bit Mrs. R, but I don’t have a second to
change my mind. I hastily don black bra and panties, conscious that he’s watching my every move.
It’s... unnerving. The panties and bra will do.
“You look good,” Christian purrs from the bed. “You can call in sick, you know.” He gives me
his devastating, lopsided, one hundred and fifty percent panty-busting smile. Oh, he’s so tempting. My
inner goddess pouts provocatively at me.
“No, Christian, I can’t. I am not a megalomaniac CEO with a beautiful smile who can come and
go as he pleases.”
“I like to come as I please.” He smirks and cranks his glorious smile up another notch so it’s in
full hd imax.
“Christian!” I scold. I throw my towel at him and he laughs.“Beautiful smile, huh?”
“Yes. You know the effect you have on me.” I put on my watch.
“Do I?” he blinks innocently.
“Yes, you do. The same effect you have on all women. Gets really tiresome watching them all
swoon.”
“Does it?” He cocks his eyebrow at me, more amused.
“Don’t play the innocent, Mr. Grey, it really doesn’t suit you,” I mutter distractedly as I scoop
my hair into a ponytail and pull on my black high-heeled shoes. There, that will do.
When I bend to kiss him good-bye, he grabs me and pulls me down onto the bed, leaning over me
and smiling from ear to ear. Oh my. He’s so beautiful—eyes bright with mischief, floppy just-fucked-
again hair, that dazzling smile. Nowhe’s playful.
I’m tired, still reeling from all the disclosures of yesterday, while he’s bright as a button and sexy
as fuck. Oh, exasperating Fifty.
“What can I do to tempt you to stay?” he says softly, and my heart skips a beat and begins to
pound. He is temptation personified.
“You can’t,” I grumble, struggling to sit back up. “Let me go.”
He pouts and I give up. Grinning, I trace my fingers over his sculptured lips—my Fifty Shades. I
love him so in all his monumental fuckedupness. I haven’t even begun to process yesterday’s events
and how I feel about them.
I lean up to kiss him, thankful that I have brushed my teeth. He kisses me long and hard and then
swiftly sets me on my feet, leaving me dazed, breathless, and slightly wobbly.
“Taylor will take you. Quicker than finding somewhere to park. He’s waiting outside the
building,” Christian says kindly, and he seems relieved. Is he worried about my reaction this morning?
Surely last night—er, this morning—proved that I am not going to run.
“Okay. Thank you,” I mutter, disappointed that I am upright on my feet, confused by his
hesitancy, and vaguely irritated that once again I won’t be driving my Saab. But he’s right, of course
—it will be quicker with Taylor.
“Enjoy your lazy morning, Mr. Grey. I wish I could stay, but the man who owns the company I
work for would not approve of his staff ditching just for hot sex.” I grab my purse.
“Personally, Miss Steele, I have no doubt that he would approve. In fact he might insist on it.”
“Why are you staying in bed? It’s not like you.”
He folds his hands behind his head and grins at me.
“Because I can, Miss Steele.”
I shake my head at him. “Laters, baby.” I blow him a kiss, and I am out of the door.
Taylor is waiting for me, and he seems to understand that I am late because he drives like a bat out of
hell to get me to work by nine fifteen. I am grateful when he pulls up at the curb—grateful to be alive–
his driving was scary. And grateful that I am not hideously late—only fifteen minutes.
“Thank you, Taylor,” I mutter, ashen-faced. I remember Christian telling me he drove tanks;
maybe he drives for nascar, too.
“Ana.” He nods a farewell, and I dash into my office, realizing as I open the door to reception
that Taylor seems to have overcome the Miss Steele formality. It makes me smile.
Claire grins at me as I rush through reception and make my way to my desk.
“Ana!” Jack calls me. “Get in here.”Oh shit.
“What time do you call this?” he snaps.
“I’m sorry. I overslept.” I flush crimson.
“Don’t let it happen again. Fix me some coffee, and then I need you to do some letters. Jump to
it,” he shouts, making me flinch.
Why’s he so mad? What’s his problem? What have I done? I hurry to the kitchen to fix his
coffee. Maybe I should have ditched. I could be... well, doing something hot with Christian, or having
breakfast with him, or just talking—that would be novel.
Jack barely acknowledges my presence when I venture back into his office to deliver his coffee.
He thrusts a sheet of paper at me—it’s handwritten in a barely legible scrawl.
“Type this up, have me sign, then copy and mail it to all our authors.”
“Yes, Jack.”
He doesn’t look up as I leave. Boy, is he mad.
It is with some relief that I finally sit down at my desk. I take a sip of tea as I wait for my
computer to boot up. I check my e-mails.
From: Christian Grey
Subject:Missing you
Date:June 15, 2011 09:05
To:Anastasia Steele
Please use your Blackberry.
x
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:All Right for Some
Date:June 15, 2011 09:27
To:Christian Grey
My boss is mad.
I blame you for keeping me up late with your... shenanigans.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Shenaniwhatagans?
Date:June 15, 2011 09:32
To:Anastasia Steele
You don’t have to work, Anastasia.
You have no idea how appalled I am at my shenanigans.
But I like keeping you up late ;)
Please use your Blackberry.
Oh, and marry me, please.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Living to make
Date:June 15, 2011 09:35
To:Christian Grey
I know your natural inclination is toward nagging, but just stop.
I need to talk to your shrink.
Only then will I give you my answer.
I am not opposed to living in sin.
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:BLACKBERRY
Date:June 15, 2011 09:40
To:Anastasia Steele
Anastasia, if you are going to start discussing Dr. Flynn then USE YOUR BLACKBERRY.
This is not a request.
Christian Grey,
Now Pissed CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh shit. Nowhe’smad at me, too. Well, he can stew for all I care. I take my Blackberry out of my
purse and eye it with skepticism. As I do, it starts ringing. Can’t he leave me alone?
“Yes,” I snap.
“Ana, hi—”
“José! How are you?” Oh, it’s good to hear his voice.
“I’m fine, Ana. Look, are you still seeing that Grey guy?”
“Er—yes... Why?” Where is he going with this?
“Well, he’s bought all your photos, and I thought I could deliver them up to Seattle. The
exhibition closes Thursday, so I could bring them up Friday evening and drop them off, you know.
And maybe we could catch a drink or something. Actually, I was hoping for a place to crash, too.”
“José, that’s cool. Yeah, I’m sure we could work something out. Let me talk to Christian and call
you back, okay?”
“Cool, I’ll wait to hear from you. Bye, Ana.”
“Bye.” And he’s gone.
Holy cow. I haven’t seen or heard from José since his show. I didn’t even ask him how it went or
if he sold any more pictures. Some friend I am.
So, I could spend the evening with José on Friday. How will Christian like that? I become aware
that I am biting my lip till it hurts. Oh, that man has double standards. He can—I shudder at the
thought—bathe his batshit ex-lover, but I will probably get a truckload of grief for wanting to have a
drink with José. How am I going to handle this?
“Ana!” Jack pulls me abruptly out of my reverie. Is he still mad? “Where’s that letter?”
“Er—coming.” Shit. What is eating him?
I type up his letter in double-quick time, print it out, and nervously make my way into his office.
“Here you go.” I place it on his desk and turn to leave. Jack quickly casts his critical, piercing,
eyes over it.
“I don’t know what you’re doing out there, but I pay you to work,” he barks.
“I’m aware of that, Jack,” I mutter apologetically. I feel a slow flush creep up my skin.
“This is full of mistakes,” he snaps. “Do it again.”Fuck. He’s beginning to sound like someone I know, but rudeness from Christian I can tolerate.
Jack is beginning to piss me off.
“And get me another coffee while you’re at it.”
“Sorry,” I whisper and scurry out of his office as quickly as I can.
Holy fuck. He’s being unbearable. I sit back down at my desk, hastily redo his letter, which had
two mistakes in it, and check it thoroughly before printing. Now it’s perfect. I fetch him another
coffee, letting Claire know with a roll of my eyes that I am in deep doo-doo. Taking a deep breath, I
approach his office again.
“Better,” he mumbles reluctantly as he signs the letter. “Photocopy it, file the original, and mail
out to all authors. Understand?”
“Yes.” I am not an idiot. “Jack, is there something wrong?”
He glances up, his blue eyes darkening as his gaze runs up and down my body. My blood chills.
“No.” His answer is concise, rude, and dismissive. I stand there like the idiot I professed not to be
and then shuffle back out of his office. Perhaps he too suffers from a personality disorder. Sheesh, I’m
surrounded by them. I make my way to the photocopier—which of course is suffering from a paper
jam—and when I’ve fixed it, I find it’s out of paper. This is not my day.
When I am finally back at my desk, stuffing envelopes, my Blackberry buzzes. I can see through
the glass wall that Jack is on the phone. I answer—it’s Ethan.
“Hi, Ana. How’d it go last night?”
Last night. A quick montage of images flashes through my mind—Christian kneeling, his
revelation, his proposal, macaroniandcheese, my weeping, his nightmare, the sex, touching him...
“Eh... fine,” I mutter unconvincingly.
Ethan pauses and decides to collude in my denial. “Cool. Can I collect the keys?”
“Sure.”
“I’ll be over in about half an hour. Will you have time to grab a coffee?”
“Not today. I was late getting in, and my boss is like an angry bear with a sore head and poison
ivy up his ass.”
“Sounds nasty.”
“Nasty and ugly.” I giggle.
Ethan laughs and my mood lifts a little. “Okay. See you in thirty.” He hangs up.
I glance up at Jack and he’s staring at me. Oh shit. I studiously ignore him and continue to stuff
envelopes.
Half an hour later my phone buzzes. It’s Claire. “He’s here again, in reception. The blond god.”
Ethan is a joy to see after all the angst of yesterday and the bad temper my boss is inflicting on
me today, but all too soon, he’s saying his good-byes.
“Will I see you this evening?”
“I’ll probably stay with Christian.” I flush.
“You have got it bad,” Ethan observes good-naturedly.
I shrug. That’s not the half of it, and in that moment I realize, I have it more than bad. I have it
for life. And amazingly, Christian seems to feel the same. Ethan gives me a swift hug.
“Laters, Ana.”
I return to my desk, wrestling with my realization. Oh, what I would do for a day on my own, to
just think all this through.
“Where have you been?” Jack is suddenly looming over me.
“I had some business to attend to in reception.” He is really getting on my nerves.
“I want my lunch. The usual,” he says abruptly and stomps back into his office.
Why didn’t I stay home with Christian? My inner goddess crosses her arms and purses her lips;she wants to know the answer to that one, too. Picking up my purse and my Blackberry, I head for the
door. I check my messages.
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Missing you
Date:June 15, 2011 09:06
To:Anastasia Steele
My bed is too big without you.
Looks like I’ll have to go to work after all.
Even megalomaniac CEOs need something to do.
x
Christian Grey
Twiddling His Thumbs CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
And there’s another from him, from earlier this morning.
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Discretion
Date:June 15, 2011 09:50
To:Anastasia Steele
Is the better part of valor.
Please use discretion... your work e-mails are monitored.
HOW MANY TIMES DO I HAVE TO TELL YOU THIS?
Yes. Shouty capitals as you say. USE YOUR BLACKBERRY.
Dr. Flynn can see us tomorrow evening.
x
Christian Grey
Still Pissed CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
And an even later one... Oh no.
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Crickets
Date:June 15, 2011 12:15
To:Anastasia Steele
I haven’t heard from you.
Please tell me you are okay.
You know how I worry.
I will send Taylor to check!
x
Christian Grey,
Over-Anxious CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I roll my eyes, and call him. I don’t want him to worry.
“Christian Grey’s phone, Andrea Parker speaking.”
Oh. I am so disconcerted that it’s not Christian who answers that it halts me in the street, and theyoung man behind me mutters angrily as he swerves to avoid bumping into me. I stand under the
green awning of the deli.
“Hello? Can I help you?” Andrea fills the void of awkward silence.
“Sorry... Er... I was hoping to speak to Christian—”
“Mr. Grey is in a meeting at the moment.” She bristles with efficiency. “Can I take a message?”
“Can you tell him Ana called?”
“Ana? As in Anastasia Steele?”
“Er... Yes.” Her question confuses me.
“Hold one second please, Miss Steele.”
I listen attentively as she puts the phone down, but I can’t tell what’s going on. A few seconds
later Christian is on the line. “Are you okay?”
“Yes, I’m fine.”
I hear the quick release of his held breath. He’s relieved.
“Christian, why wouldn’t I be okay?” I whisper reassuringly.
“You’re normally so quick at responding to my e-mails. After what I told you yesterday, I was
worried,” he says quietly, and then he’s talking to someone in his office.
“No, Andrea. Tell them to wait,” he says sternly. Oh, I know that tone of voice.
I can’t hear Andrea’s response.
“No. I said wait,” he snaps.
“Christian, you’re obviously busy. I only called to let you know that I’m okay, and I mean that—
just very busy today. Jack has been cracking the whip. Er... I mean...” I flush and fall silent.
Christian says nothing for a moment.
“Cracking the whip, eh? Well, there was a time when I would have called him a lucky man.” His
voice is full of dry humor. “Don’t let him get on top of you, baby.”
“Christian!” I scold him and I know he’s grinning.
“Just watch him, that’s all. Look, I’m glad you’re okay. What time shall I collect you?”
“I’ll e-mail you.”
“From your Blackberry,” he says sternly.
“Yes, Sir,” I snap back.
“Laters, baby.”
“Bye...”
He’s still hanging on.
“Hang up,” I scold, smiling.
He sighs heavily down the phone. “I wish you’d never gone to work this morning.”
“Me, too. But I am busy. Hang up.”
“You hang up.” I hear his smile. Oh, playful Christian. I love playful Christian. Hmm... I love
Christian, period.
“We’ve been here before.”
“You’re biting your lip.”
Shit, he’s right. How does he know?
“You see, you think I don’t know you, Anastasia. But I know you better than you think,” he
murmurs seductively in that way that makes me weak, and wet.
“Christian, I’ll talk to you later. Right now, I really wish I hadn’t left this morning, too.”
“I’ll wait for your e-mail, Miss Steele.”
“Good day, Mr. Grey.”
Hanging up, I lean against the cold, hard glass of the deli store window. Oh my, even on the
phone he owns me. Shaking my head to clear it of all thoughts Grey, I head into the deli, depressed byall thoughts Jack.
He is scowling when I get back.
“Is it okay if I take my lunch now?” I ask tentatively. He gazes up at me and his scowl deepens.
“If you must,” he snaps. “Forty-five minutes. Make up the time you lost this morning.”
“Jack, can I ask you something?”
“What?”
“You seem, kind of out of sorts today. Have I done something to offend you?”
He blinks at me momentarily. “I don’t think I’m in the mood to list your misdemeanors right
now. I’m busy.” He continues to stare at his computer screen, effectively dismissing me.
Whoa... What have I done?
I turn and leave his office, and for a moment I think I’m going to cry. Why has he taken such a
sudden and intense dislike to me? A very unwelcome idea pops into my head, but I ignore it. I don’t
need his shit right now—I have enough of my own.
I head out of the building to the nearby Starbucks, order a latte, and sit down in the window.
Taking my iPod from my purse, I plug my headphones in. I choose a song haphazardly and press
repeat so it will play over and over again. I need music to think by.
My mind drifts. Christian the sadist. Christian the submissive. Christian the untouchable.
Christian’s oedipal impulses. Christian bathing Leila. I groan and close my eyes while that last image
haunts me.
Can I really marry this man? He’s so much to take in. He’s complex and difficult, but deep down
I know I don’t want to leave him despite all his issues. I could never leave him. I love him. It would be
like cutting off my right arm.
Right now, I have never felt so alive, so vital. I’ve encountered all manner of perplexing,
profound feelings and new experiences since I met him. It’s never a dull moment with Fifty.
Looking back on my life before Christian, it’s as if everything was in black and white like José’s
pictures. Now my whole world is in rich, bright, saturated color. I am soaring in a beam of dazzling
light, Christian’s dazzling light. I am still Icarus, flying too close to his sun. I snort to myself. Flying
with Christian—who can resist a man who can fly?
Can I give him up? Do I want to give him up? It’s as if he’s flipped a switch and lit me up from
within. It’s been an education knowing him. I have discovered more about myself in the last few
weeks than ever before. I’ve learned about my body, my hard limits, my soft limits, my tolerance, my
patience, my compassion, and my capacity for love.
And it strikes me like a thunderbolt—that’s what he needs from me, what he’s entitled to—
unconditional love. He never received it from the crack whore—it’s what he needs. Can I love him
unconditionally? Can I accept him for who he is regardless of his revelations last night?
I know he’s damaged, but I don’t think he’s irredeemable. I sigh, recalling Taylor’s words. “ He’s
a good man, Miss Steele.”
I’ve seen the weighty evidence of his goodness—his charity work, his business ethics, his
generosity—and yet he doesn’t see it in himself. He doesn’t feel deserving of any love. Given his
history and his predilections, I have an inkling of his self-loathing—that’s why he’s never let anyone
in. Can I get past this?
He said once that I couldn’t begin to understand the depths of his depravity. Well, he’s told me
now, and given the first few years of his life, it doesn’t surprise me. Though it was still a shock to hearit out loud. At least he’s told me—and he seems happier now that he has. I know everything.
Does it devalue his love for me? No, I don’t think so. He’s never felt this way before and neither
have I. In truth we’ve both come so far.
Tears prick and pool in my eyes as I recall his final barriers crumbling last night when he let me
touch him. Jeez, it took Leila and all her crazy to get us to there.
Perhaps I should be grateful. The fact that he bathed her is not quite such a bitter taste on my
tongue now. I wonder which clothes he gave her. I hope it wasn’t the plum dress. I liked that.
So can I love this man with all his issues unconditionally? Because he deserves nothing less. He
still needs to learn boundaries and little things like empathy, and to be less controlling. He says he no
longer feels the compulsion to hurt me; perhaps Dr. Flynn will be able to cast some light on that.
Fundamentally, that’s what concerns me most—that he needs that and has always found like-
minded women who need it, too. I frown. Yes, this is the reassurance I need. I want to be all things to
this man, his Alpha and his Omega and all things in between because he is to me.
I hope Flynn will have the answers, and maybe then I can say yes. Christian and I can find our
own slice of heaven close to the sun.
I gaze out at bustling, lunchtime Seattle. Mrs. Christian Grey—who would have thought? I glance
at my watch. Shit! I leap up from my seat and dash to the door—a whole hour of just sitting—where
did the time go? Jack is going to go ballistic!
I slink back to my desk. Fortunately, he’s not in his office. It looks like I’ve got away with it. I gaze
intently at my computer screen, unseeing, trying to reassemble my thoughts into work mode.
“Where were you?”
I jump. Jack is standing, arms folded, behind me.
“I was in the basement, photocopying,” I lie. Jack lips press into a thin, uncompromising line.
“I’m leaving for my plane at six thirty. I need you to stay until then.”
“Okay.” I smile as sweetly as I can manage.
“I’d like my itinerary for New York printed out and photocopied ten times. And get the brochures
packaged up. And get me some coffee!” he snarls and stalks into his office.
I breathe a sigh of relief and stick my tongue out at him as he closes the door. Bastard.
At four o’clock, Claire rings from reception.
“I have Mia Grey for you.”
Mia? I hope she doesn’t want to hang at the mall.
“Hi, Mia!”
“Ana, hi. How are you?” Her excitement is stifling.
“Good. Busy today. You?”
“I am so bored! I need to find something to do, so I’m arranging a birthday party for Christian.”
Christian’s birthday? Jeez, I had no idea. “When is it?”
“I knew it. I knew he wouldn’t tell you. It’s on Saturday. Mom and Dad want everyone over for a
meal to celebrate. I’m officially inviting you.”
“Oh, that’s lovely. Thank you, Mia.”
“I’ve already called Christian and told him, and he gave me your number here.”“Cool.” My mind is in a flat spin—what the hell am I going to get Christian for his birthday?
What do you buy the man who has everything?
“And maybe next week, we can go out one lunchtime?”
“Sure. How about tomorrow? My boss is away in New York.”
“Oh, that would be cool, Ana. What time?”
“Say, twelve forty-five?”
“I’ll be there. Bye, Ana.”
“Bye.” I hang up.
Christian. Birthday. What on earth should I get him?
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Antediluvian
Date:June 15, 2011 16:11
To:Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
When, exactly, were you going to tell me?
What shall I get myoldman for his birthday?
Perhaps some new batteries for his hearing aid?
A x
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Prehistoric
Date:June 15, 2011 16:20
To:Anastasia Steele
Don’t mock the elderly.
Glad you are alive and kicking.
And that Mia has been in touch.
Batteries are always useful.
I don’t like celebrating my birthday.
x
Christian Grey,
Deaf as a Post CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Hmmm.
Date:June 15, 2011 16:24
To:Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I can imagine you pouting as you wrote that last sentence.
That does things to me.
A xox
Anastasia Steele
Assistant to Jack Hyde, Commissioning Editor, SIP
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Rolling Eyes
Date:June 15, 2011 16:29
To:Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
WILL YOU USE YOUR BLACKBERRY!!!
xChristian Grey
Twitchy Palmed, CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I roll my eyes. Why is he so touchy about e-mails?
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Inspiration
Date:June 15, 2011 16:33
To:Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
Ah... your twitchy palms can’t stay still for long, can they?
I wonder what Dr. Flynn would say about that?
But now I know what to give you for your birthday—and I hope it makes me sore...
;)
A x
From:Christian Grey
Subject:Angina
Date:June 15, 2011 16:38
To:Anastasia Steele
Miss Steele
I don’t think my heart could stand the strain of another e-mail like that, or my pants for that matter.
Behave.
x
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
From:Anastasia Steele
Subject:Trying
Date:June 15, 2011 16:42
To:Christian Grey
Christian
I am trying to work for my very trying boss.
Please stop bothering me and being trying yourself.
Your last e-mail nearly made me combust.
x
PS: Can you collect me at 6:30?
From:Christian Grey
Subject:I’ll Be There
Date:June 15, 2011 16:38
To:Anastasia Steele
Nothing would give me greater pleasure.
Actually, I can think of any of number of things that would give me greater pleasure, and they all involve you.
x
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I flush reading his response and shake my head. E-mail banter is all well and good, but we really needto talk. Perhaps once we’ve seen Flynn. I put my Blackberry down and finish my petty cash
reconciliation.
By six fifteen, the office is deserted. I have everything ready for Jack. His cab to the airport is booked,
and I just have to hand him his documents. I glance anxiously through the glass, but he’s still deep in
his telephone call, and I don’t want to interrupt him—not in the mood he’s in today.
As I wait for him to finish, it occurs to me that I have not eaten today. Oh shit, that’s not going to
go down well with Fifty. I quickly skip down to the kitchen to see if there are any cookies left.
As I’m opening the communal cookie jar, Jack appears unexpectedly in the kitchen doorway,
startling me.
Oh. What’s he doing here?
He stares at me. “Well, Ana, I think this might be a good time to discuss your misdemeanors.” He
steps in, closing the door behind him, and my mouth instantly dries as alarm bells ring loud and
piercing in my head.
Ohfuck.
His lips twitch into a grotesque smile, and his eyes gleam a deep, dark cobalt. “At last, I have you
on your own,” he says, and he slowly licks his lower lip.
What?
“Now... are you going to be a good girl and listen very carefully to what I say?”Jack’s eyes flash the darkest blue, and he sneers as he casts a leering look down my body.
Fear chokes me. What is this? What does he want? From somewhere deep inside and despite my
dry mouth, I find the resolve and courage to squeeze out some words, my self-defense class keep-
them-talking mantra circling my brain like an ethereal sentinel.
“Jack, now might not be a good time for this. Your cab is due in ten minutes, and I need to give
you all your documents.” My voice is quiet but hoarse, betraying me.
He smiles, and it’s a despotic fuck-you smile that finally touches his eyes. They glint in the harsh
fluorescent glow of the strip light above us in the drab windowless room. He takes a step toward me,
glaring at me, his eyes never leaving mine. His pupils are dilating as I watch—the black eclipsing the
blue. Oh no. My fear escalates.
“You know I had to fight with Elizabeth to give you this job...” His voice trails off as he takes
another step toward me, and I step back against the dingy wall cupboards. Keep-him-talking, keep-
him-talking, keep-him-talking.
“Jack, what exactly is your problem? If you want to air your grievances, then perhaps we should
ask HR to get involved. We could do this with Elizabeth in a more formal setting.”
Where is security? Are they in the building yet?
“We don’t need HR to overmanage this situation Ana,” he sneers. “When I hired you, I thought
you would be a hard worker. I thought you had potential. But now, I don’t know. You’ve become
distracted and sloppy. And I wondered... is it your boyfriend who’s leading you astray?” He says
boyfriend with chilling contempt.
“I decided to check through your e-mail account to see if I could find any clues. And you know
what I found, Ana? What was out of place? The only personal e-mails in your account were toyour
hot-shot boyfriend.” He pauses, assessing my reaction. “And I got to thinking... where are the e-
mailsfromhim? There are none. Nada. Nothing. So what’s going on, Ana? How come his e-mails to
you aren’t on our system? Are you some company spy, planted in here by Grey’s organization?
Isthatwhat this is?”
Holy shit, the e-mails. Oh no. What have I said?
“Jack, what are you talking about?” I try for bewildered, and I’m pretty convincing. Thisconversation is not going as I expected, but I don’t trust him in the slightest. Some subliminal
pheromone that Jack is exuding has me on high alert. This man is angry, volatile, and totally
unpredictable. I try to reason with him.
“You just said that you had to persuade Elizabeth to hire me. So how could I be planted as a spy?
Make up your mind, Jack.”
“But Grey fucked the New York trip, didn’t he?”
Oh shit.
“How did he manage that, Ana? What did your rich, Ivy League boyfriend do?”
What little blood remains in my face drains away, and I think I’m going to faint. “I don’t know
what you’re talking about, Jack,” I whisper. “Your cab will be here shortly. Shall I fetch your
things?”Oh please, let me go. Stop this.
Jack continues, enjoying my discomfort. “And he thinks I’d make a pass at you?” He smirks and
his eyes heat. “Well, I want you to think about something while I’m in New York. I gave you this job,
and I expect you to show me some gratitude. In fact, I’m entitled to it. I had to fight to get you.
Elizabeth wanted someone better qualified, but I—I saw something in you. So, we need to work out a
deal. A deal where you keep me happy. D’you understand what I’m saying, Ana?”
Fuck!
“Look at it as refining your job description, if you like. And if you keep me happy, I won’t dig
any further into how your boyfriend is pulling strings, milking his contacts, or cashing in some favor
from one of his Ivy League frat-boy sycophants.”
My mouth drops open. He’sblackmailingme. For sex! And what can I say? News of Christian’s
takeover is embargoed for another three weeks. I can barely believe this. Sex—with me!
Jack moves closer until he’s standing right in front of me, staring down into my eyes. His cloying
sweet cologne invades my nostrils—it’s nauseating—and if I’m not mistaken, the bitter stench of
alcohol is on his breath. Fuck, he’s been drinking... when?
“You are such a tight-assed, cock-blocking, prick tease, you know, Ana,” he whispers through
clenched teeth.
What? Prick tease... Me?
“Jack, I have no idea what you’re talking about,” I whisper, as I feel the adrenaline surge through
my body. He’s closer now. I am waiting to make my move. Ray will be proud. Ray taught me what to
do. Ray knows his self-defense. If Jack touches me—if he even breathes too close to me—I will take
him down. My breath is shallow. I must not faint, I must not faint.
“Look at you.” He gives me a leering look. “You’re so turned on, I can tell. You’ve really led me
on. Deep down you want it. I know.”
Holy fuck. The man is completely delusional. My fear rises to defcon one, threatening to
overwhelm me. “No, Jack. I have never led you on.”
“You have, you prick-teasing bitch. I can read the signs.” Reaching up, he gently strokes my face
with the back of his knuckles, down to my chin. His index finger strokes my throat, and my heart leaps
into my mouth as I fight my gag reflex. He reaches the dip at the base of my neck, where the top
button of my black shirt is open, and presses his hand against my chest.
“You want me. Admit it, Ana.”
Keeping my eyes firmly fixed on his and concentrating on what I have to do—rather than my
mushrooming revulsion and dread—I place my hand gently over his in a caress. He smiles in triumph.
I grab his little finger, and twist it back, pulling it sharply down backward to his hip.
“Arrgh!” he cries out in pain and surprise, and as he leans off balance, I bring my knee, swift and
hard, up into his groin, and make perfect contact with my goal. I dodge deftly to my left as his kneesbuckle, and he collapses with a groan onto the kitchen floor, grasping himself between his legs.
“Don’t you ever touch me again,” I snarl at him. “Your itinerary and the brochures are packaged
on my desk. I am going home now. Have a nice trip. And in the future, get your own damn coffee.”
“You fucking bitch!” he half screams, half groans at me, but I am already out the door.
I run full pelt to my desk, grab my jacket and my purse, and dash to front reception, ignoring the
moans and curses emanating from the bastard still prostrate on the kitchen floor. I burst out of the
building and stop for a moment as the cool air hits my face, take a deep breath, and compose myself.
But I haven’t eaten all day, and as the very unwelcome surge of adrenaline recedes, my legs give out
beneath me and I sink to the ground.
I watch with mild detachment the slow motion movie that plays out in front of me: Christian and
Taylor in dark suits and white shirts, leaping out of the waiting car and running toward me. Christian
sinks to his knees at my side, and on some unconscious level, all I can think is: He’s here. My love is
here.
“Ana, Ana! What’s wrong?” He scoops me into his lap, running his hands up and down my arms,
checking for any signs of injury. Grabbing my head between his hands, he stares with wide, terrified,
gray eyes into mine. I sag against him, suddenly overwhelmed with relief and fatigue. Oh, Christian’s
arms. There is no place I’d rather be.
“Ana.” He shakes me gently. “What’s wrong? Are you sick?”
I shake my head as I realize I need to start communicating.
“Jack,” I whisper, and I sense rather than see Christian’s swift glance at Taylor, who abruptly
disappears into the building.
“Fuck!” Christian enfolds me in his arms. “What did that sleazeball do to you?”
And from somewhere just the right side of crazy, a giggle bubbles in my throat. I recall Jack’s
utter shock as I grabbed his finger.
“It’s whatIdid tohim.” I start giggling and I can’t stop.
“Ana!” Christian shakes me again, and my giggling fit ceases. “Did he touch you?”
“Only once.”
I feel Christian’s muscles bunch and tense as rage sweeps through him, and he stands up swiftly,
powerfully—rock steady—with me in his arms. He’s furious. No!
“Where is that fucker?”
From inside the building we hear muffled shouting. Christian sets me on my feet.
“Can you stand?”
I nod.
“Don’t go in. Don’t, Christian.” Suddenly my fear is back, fear of what Christian will do to Jack.
“Get in the car,” he barks at me.
“Christian, no.” I grab his arm.
“Get in the goddamned car, Ana.” He shakes me off.
“No! Please!” I plead with him. “Stay. Don’t leave me on my own.” I deploy my ultimate
weapon.
Seething, Christian runs his hand through his hair and glares down at me, clearly wracked with
indecision. The shouting inside the building escalates, and then stops suddenly.
Oh, no. What has Taylor done?
Christian fishes out his Blackberry.
“Christian, he has my e-mails.”
“What?”
“My e-mails to you. He wanted to know where your e-mails to me were. He was trying to
blackmail me.”Christian’s look is murderous. Oh shit. “Fuck!” he splutters and narrows his eyes at me. He
punches a number into his Blackberry.
Oh no. I’m in trouble. Who’s he calling?
“Barney. Grey. I need you to access the SIP main server and wipe all Anastasia Steele’s e-mails
to me. Then access the personal data files of Jack Hyde and check they aren’t stored there. If they are,
wipe them... Yes, all of them. Now. Let me know when it’s done.”
He stabs the off button then dials another number.
“Roach. Grey. Hyde—I want him out. Now. This minute. Call security. Get him to clear his desk
immediately, or I will liquidate this company first thing in the morning. You already have all the
justification you need to give him his pink slip. Do you understand?” He listens for a moment and
hangs up seemingly satisfied.
“Blackberry,” he hisses at me through clenched teeth.
“Please don’t be mad at me.” I blink up at him.
“I am so mad at you right now,” he snarls and once more sweeps his hand through his hair. “Get
in the car.”
“Christian, please—”
“Get in the fucking car, Anastasia, or so help me I’ll put you in there myself,” he threatens, his
eyes blazing with fury.
Oh shit. “Don’t do anything stupid, please,” I beg.
“STUPID!” he explodes. “I told you to use your fucking Blackberry. Don’t talk to me about
stupid. Get in the motherfucking car, Anastasia— NOW!” he snarls and a frisson of fear runs through
me. This is Very Angry Christian. I’ve not seen him this mad before. He’s barely holding on to his
self-control.
“Okay,” I mutter, placating him. “But please, be careful.”
Pressing his lips together in a hard line, he points angrily to the car, glaring at me.
Jeez, okay, I get the message.
“Please be careful. I don’t want anything to happen to you. It would kill me,” I murmur. He
blinks rapidly and stills, lowering his arm while he takes a deep breath.
“I’ll be careful,” he says, his eyes softening. Oh, thank the Lord. His eyes burn into me as I head
to the car, open the front passenger door, and climb in. Once I’m safely in the comfort of the Audi, he
disappears into the building, and my heart leaps again into my throat. What’s he planning to do?
I sit and wait. And wait. And wait. Five eternal minutes. Jack’s cab pulls up in front of the Audi.
Ten minutes. Fifteen. Jeez, what are they doing in there, and how is Taylor? The wait is agonizing.
Twenty-five minutes later, Jack emerges from the building, clutching a cardboard storage box.
Behind him is the security guard. Where was he earlier? And after them, Christian and Taylor. Jack
looks sick. He heads straight for the cab, and I’m grateful for the Audi’s heavily tinted windows so he
cannot see me. The cab drives off—presumably not to Sea-Tac—as Christian and Taylor reach the car.
Opening the driver’s door, Christian slides smoothly into the seat, presumably because I am in
the front, and Taylor gets in behind me. Neither of them says a word as Christian starts the car and
pulls out into the traffic. I risk a quick glance at Fifty. His mouth is set in a firm line, but he seems
distracted. The in-car phone rings.
“Grey,” Christian snaps.
“Mr. Grey, Barney here.”
“Barney, I’m on speaker phone, and there are others in the car,” Christian warns.
“Sir, it’s all done. But I need to talk to you about what else I found on Mr. Hyde’s computer.”
“I’ll call you when I reach my destination. And thanks, Barney.”“No problem, Mr. Grey.”
Barney hangs up. He sounds much younger than I expected.
What else is on Jack’s computer?
“Are you talking to me?” I ask quietly.
Christian glances at me, before fixing his eyes back on the road ahead, and I can tell he’s still
mad.
“No,” he mutters sullenly.
Oh, there we go... how childish. I wrap my arms around myself and stare unseeing out the
window. Perhaps I should just ask him to drop me off at my apartment, then he can “not talk” to me
from the safety of Escala and save us both the inevitable quarrel. But even as I think it, I know I don’t
want to leave him to brood, not after yesterday.
Eventually, we pull up in front of his apartment building, and Christian climbs out of the car.
Moving with easy grace around to my side, he opens my door.
“Come,” he orders as Taylor clambers into the driver’s seat. I take his proffered hand and follow
him through the grand foyer to the elevator. He doesn’t let go of me.
“Christian, why are you so mad at me?” I whisper as we wait.
“You know why,” he mutters as we step into the elevator, and he punches in the code to his floor.
“God, if something had happened to you, he’d be dead by now.” Christian’s tone chills me to the bone.
The doors close.
“As it is, I’m going to ruin his career so he can’t take advantage of young women anymore,
miserable excuse for a man that he is.” He shakes his head. “Jesus, Ana!” He grabs me suddenly,
imprisoning me in the corner of the elevator.
His hands fist in my hair as he pulls my face up to his, and his mouth is on mine, a passionate
desperation in his kiss. I don’t know why this takes me by surprise, but it does. I taste his relief, his
longing, and his residual anger while his tongue possesses my mouth. He stops, gazing down at me,
resting his weight against me so I can’t move. He leaves me breathless, clinging to him for support,
staring up into that beautiful face etched with determination and without any trace of humor.
“If anything had happened to you... If he’d harmed you...” I feel the shudder that runs through
him. “Blackberry,” he commands quietly. “From now on. Understand?”
I nod, swallowing, unable to break eye contact from his grim, mesmerizing look.
He straightens, releasing me as the elevator comes to a stop. “He said you kicked him in the
balls.” Christian’s tone is lighter with a trace of admiration, and I think I’m forgiven.
“Yes,” I whisper, still reeling from the intensity of his kiss and his impassioned command.
“Good.”
“Ray is ex-army. He taught me well.”
“I’m very glad he did,” he breathes and adds, arching a brow, “I’ll need to remember that.”
Taking my hand, he leads me out of the elevator and I follow, relieved. I think that’s as bad as his
mood is going to get.
“I need to call Barney. I won’t be long.” He disappears into his study, leaving me stranded in the
vast living room. Mrs. Jones is adding the finishing touches to our meal. I realize I am famished, but I
need something to do.
“Can I help?” I ask.
She laughs. “No, Ana. Can I fix you a drink or something? You look beat.”
“I’d love a glass of wine.”
“White?”
“Yes, please.”
I perch on one of the bar stools, and she hands me a glass of chilled wine. I don’t know what it is,but it’s delicious and slides down easily, soothing my shattered nerves. What was I thinking about
earlier today? How alive I have felt since I met Christian. How exciting my life has become. Jeez,
could I just have a few boring days?
What if I’d never met Christian? I’d be holed up in my apartment, talking it through with Ethan,
completely freaked by my encounter with Jack, knowing I would have to face the sleazeball again on
Friday. As it is, there’s every chance I’ll never set eyes on him again. But who will I work for now? I
frown. I hadn’t thought of that. Shit, do I even have a job?
“Evening, Gail,” Christian says as he comes back into the great room, dragging me from my
thoughts. Heading straight to the fridge, he pours himself a glass of wine.
“Good evening, Mr. Grey. Dinner in ten, sir?”
“Sounds good.”
Christian raises his glass.
“To ex-military men who train their daughters well,” he says and his eyes soften.
“Cheers,” I mutter, raising my glass.
“What’s wrong?” Christian asks.
“I don’t know if I still have a job.”
He cocks his head to the side. “Do you still want one?”
“Of course.”
“Then you still have one.”
Simple. See? He is master of my universe. I roll my eyes at him and he smiles.
Mrs. Jones makes a mean chicken potpie. She has left us to enjoy the fruits of her labors, and I feel
much better now I’ve had something to eat. We are sitting at the breakfast bar, and despite my best
cajoling, Christian won’t tell me what Barney has found on Jack’s computer. I drop the subject, and
decide to tackle instead the thorny issue of José’s impending visit.
“José called,” I say nonchalantly.
“Oh?” Christian turns to face me.
“He wants to deliver your photos on Friday.”
“A personal delivery. How accommodating of him,” Christian mutters.
“He wants to go out. For a drink. With me.”
“I see.”
“And Kate and Elliot should be back,” I add quickly.
Christian puts his fork down, frowning at me.
“What exactly are you asking?”
I bristle. “I’m not asking anything. I’m informing you of my plans for Friday. Look, I want to see
José, and he wants to stay over. Either he stays here or he can stay at my place, but if he does I should
be there, too.”
Christian’s eyes widen. He looks dumbfounded.
“He made a pass at you.”
“Christian, that was weeks ago. He was drunk, I was drunk, you saved the day—it won’t happen
again. He’s no Jack, for heaven’s sake.”
“Ethan’s there. He can keep him company.”
“He wants to see me, not Ethan.”
Christian scowls at me.“He’s just a friend.” My voice is emphatic.
“I don’t like it.”
So what? Jeez, he’s irritating sometimes. I take a deep breath. “He’s my friend, Christian. I
haven’t seen him since his show. And that was too brief. I know you don’t have any friends, apart
from that god-awful woman, but I don’t moan about you seeing her,” I snap. Christian blinks, shocked.
“I want to see him. I’ve been a poor friend to him.” My subconscious is alarmed. Are you stamping
your little foot? Steady now!
Gray eyes blaze at me. “Is that what you think?” he breathes.
“Think about what?”
“Elena. You’d rather I didn’t see her?”
Holy cow. “Exactly. I’d rather you didn’t see her.”
“Why didn’t you say?”
“Because it’s not my place to say. You think she’s your only friend.” I shrug in exasperation. He
really doesn’t get it. How did this turn into a conversation about her? I don’t even want to think about
her. I try to steer us back to José. “Just as it’s not your place to say if I can or can’t see José. Don’t you
see that?”
Christian gazes at me, perplexed, I think. Oh, what is he thinking?
“He can stay here, I suppose,” he mutters. “I can keep an eye on him.” He sounds petulant.
Hallelujah!
“Thank you! You know, if I am going to live here, too...” I trail off. Christian nods. He knows
what I’m trying to say. “It’s not like you haven’t got the space.” I smirk.
His lips quirk up slowly. “Are you smirking at me, Miss Steele?”
“Most definitely, Mr. Grey.” I get up just in case his palms start twitching, clear our plates, and
then load them into the dishwasher.
“Gail will do that.”
“I’ve done it now.” I stand up and gaze at him. He’s watching me intently.
“I have to work for a while,” he says apologetically.
“Cool. I’ll find something to do.”
“Come here,” he orders, but his voice is soft and seductive, his eyes heated. I don’t hesitate to
walk into his arms, clasping him around his neck as he perches on his bar stool. He wraps his arms
around me, crushes me to him, and just holds me.
“Are you okay?” he whispers into my hair.
“Okay?”
“After what happened with that fucker? After what happened yesterday?” he adds, his voice quiet
and earnest.
I gaze into dark, serious, gray eyes. Am I okay? “Yes,” I whisper.
His arms tighten around me, and I feel safe, cherished, and loved all at once. It’s blissful. Closing
my eyes, I enjoy the feel of being in his arms. I love this man. I love his intoxicating scent, his
strength, his mercurial ways—my Fifty.
“Let’s not fight,” he murmurs. He kisses my hair and inhales deeply. “You smell heavenly as
usual, Ana.”
“So do you,” I whisper and kiss his neck.
All too soon he releases me. “I should only be a couple of hours.”I wander listlessly through the apartment. Christian is still working. I have showered and dressed in
some sweats and a T-shirt of my own, and I’m bored. I don’t want to read. If I sit still, I’ll recall Jack
and his fingers on me.
I check out my old bedroom, the subs’ room. José can sleep here—he’ll like the view. It’s about
eight fifteen, and the sun is beginning to sink into the west. The lights of the city twinkle below me.
It’s glorious. Yes, José will like it here. I wonder idly where Christian will hang José’s pictures of me.
I’d rather he didn’t. I am not keen on looking at myself.
Back down the hallway I find myself outside the playroom, and without thinking, I try the door
handle. Christian normally keeps it locked, but to my surprise, the door opens. How strange. Feeling
like a child playing hooky and straying into the forbidden forest, I walk in. It’s dark. I flick the switch
and the lights under the cornice light up with a soft glow. It’s as I remember it. A womb-like room.
Memories of the last time I was in here flash through my mind. The belt... I wince at the
recollection. Now it hangs innocently, lined up with others, on the rack beside the door. Tentatively I
run my fingers over the belts, the floggers, the paddles, and the whips. Sheesh. This is what I need to
square with Dr. Flynn. Can someone in this lifestyle just stop? It seems so improbable. Wandering
over to the bed, I sit on soft red satin sheets, gazing around at all the apparatus.
Beside me is the bench, above that the assortment of canes. So many! Surely one is enough?
Well, the less said about that the better. And the large table. We never tried that, whatever he does on
it. My eyes fall on the chesterfield, and I move over to sit on it. It’s just a couch, nothing
extraordinary about it—nothing to fasten anything to, not that I can see. Glancing behind me, I spy the
museum chest. My curiosity is piqued. What does he keep in there?
As I pull open the top drawer I realize my blood is pounding through my veins. Why am I so
nervous? This feels so illicit, as if I’m trespassing, which of course I am. But if he wants to marry me,
well...
Holy fuck, what’s all this? An array of instruments and bizarre implements—I don’t have a clue
what they are, or what they’re for—are carefully laid out in the display drawer. I pick one up. It’s
bullet-shaped with a sort of handle. Hmm... what the hell do you do with that? My mind boggles,
though I think I have an idea. Jeez, there are four different sizes! My scalp prickles and I glance up.
Christian is standing in the doorway, staring at me, his face unreadable. How long has he been
there? I feel like I’ve been caught with my hand in the cookie jar.
“Hi.” I smile nervously at him, and I know my eyes are wide and that I’m deathly pale.
“What are you doing?” he says softly, but there’s an undercurrent in his tone.
Oh shit. Is he mad? I flush. “Er... I was bored and curious,” I mutter, embarrassed to be found out.
He said he’d be two hours.
“That’s a very dangerous combination.” He runs his long index finger across his lower lip in
quiet contemplation, not taking his eyes off me. I swallow and my mouth is dry.
Slowly, he enters the room and closes the door quietly behind him, his eyes liquid gray fire. Oh
my. He leans casually over the chest of drawers, but I think his stance is deceptive. My inner goddess
doesn’t know whether it’s fight or flight time.
“So, what exactly are you curious about, Miss Steele? Perhaps I could enlighten you.”
“The door was open... I—” I gaze at Christian as I hold my breath and blink, uncertain as ever of
his reaction or what I should say. His eyes are dark. I think he’s amused, but it’s difficult to tell. He
places his elbows on the museum chest and rests his chin on his clasped hands.
“I was in here earlier today wondering what to do with it all. I must have forgotten to lock it.” He
scowls momentarily as if leaving the door unlocked is a terrible lapse in judgment. I frown—it’s not
like him to be forgetful.“Oh?”
“But now here you are, curious as ever.” His voice is soft, puzzled.
“You’re not mad?” I whisper, using my remaining breath.
He cocks his head to one side, and his lips twitch in amusement.
“Why would I be mad?”
“I feel like I’m trespassing... and you’re always mad at me.” My voice is quiet, though I’m
relieved. Christian’s brow creases once more.
“Yes, you’re trespassing, but I’m not mad. I hope that one day you’ll live with me here, and all
this”—he gestures vaguely round the room with one hand—“will be yours, too.”
My playroom... eh? I gape at him—that’s a lot to take in.
“That’s why I was in here today. Trying to decide what to do.” He taps his lips with his index
finger. “Am I angry with you all the time? I wasn’t this morning.”
Oh, that’s true. I smile at the memory of Christian when we woke, and it distracts me from the
thought of what will become of the playroom. He was such fun Fifty this morning.
“You were playful. I like playful Christian.”
“Do you now?” He arches an eyebrow, and his beautiful mouth curves up in a smile, a shy smile.
Wow!
“What’s this?” I hold up the silver bullet thing.
“Always hungry for information, Miss Steele. That’s a butt plug,” he says gently.
“Oh...”
“Bought for you.”
What? “For me?”
He nods slowly, his face now serious and wary.
I frown. “You buy new, er... toys... for each submissive?”
“Some things. Yes.”
“Butt plugs?”
“Yes.”
Okay... I swallow. Butt plug. It’s solid metal—surely that’s uncomfortable? I remember our
discussion about sex toys and hard limits after I graduated. I think at the time I said I would try. Now,
actually seeing one, I don’t know if it’s something I want to do. I examine it once more and place it
back in the drawer.
“And this?” I take out a long, black rubbery object, made of gradually diminishing spherical
bubbles joined together, the first one large and the last much smaller. Eight bubbles in total.
“Anal beads,” says Christian, watching me carefully.
Oh! I examine them with fascinated horror. All of these, inside me... there! I had no idea.
“They have quite an effect if you pull them out mid-orgasm,” he adds matter-of-factly.
“This is for me?” I whisper.
“For you.” He nods slowly.
“This is the butt drawer?”
He smirks. “If you like.”
I close it quickly, flushing like a stoplight.
“Don’t you like the butt drawer?” he asks innocently, amused. I gaze at him and shrug, trying to
brazen out my shock.
“It’s not top of my Christmas card list,” I mutter nonchalantly. Tentatively, I open the second
drawer.He grins.
“Next drawer down holds a selection of vibrators.”
I shut the drawer quickly.“And the next?” I whisper, ashen once more, but this time with embarrassment.
“That’s more interesting.”
Oh! Hesitantly I pull the drawer open, not taking my eyes off his beautiful but rather smug face.
Inside there are an assortment of metal items and some clothespins. Clothespins! I pick up a large
metal clip-like device.
“Genital clamp,” Christian says. He stands up and moves casually around so that he’s beside me.
I put it back immediately and choose something more delicate—two small clips on a chain.
“Some of these are for pain, but most are for pleasure,” he murmurs.
“What’s this?”
“Nipple clamps—that’s for both.”
“Both? Nipples?”
Christian smirks at me. “Well, there are two clamps, baby. Yes, both nipples, but that’s not what
I meant. These are for both pleasure and pain.”
Oh. He takes it from me.
“Hold out your little finger.”
I do as he asks, and he clamps one clip to the tip of my finger. It’s not too harsh.
“The sensation is very intense, but it’s when taking them off that they are at their most painful
andpleasurable.” I remove the clip. Hmm, that might be nice. I squirm at the thought.
“I like the look of these,” I murmur and Christian smiles.
“Do you now, Miss Steele? I think I can tell.”
I nod shyly, biting my lip. He reaches up and tugs on my chin so I release my bottom lip.
“You know what that does to me,” he murmurs.
I put the clips back in the drawer, and Christian leans forward and pulls out two more.
“These are adjustable.” He holds them up for me to inspect.
“Adjustable?”
“You can wear them very tight... or not. Depending on your mood.”
How does he make that sound so erotic? I swallow, and to divert his attention, pull out a device
that looks like a spiky pastry cutter.
“This?” I frown. No baking in the playroom, surely.
“That’s a Wartenberg pinwheel.”
“For?”
He reaches over and takes it from me. “Give me your hand. Palm up.”
I offer him my left hand and he takes it gently, skating his thumb over my knuckles. A shiver
runs through me. His skin against mine, it never fails to thrill me. He runs the wheel over my palm.
“Ah!” The prongs bite into my skin—there’s more than just pain. In fact, it tickles slightly.
“Imagine that over your breasts,” Christian murmurs lasciviously.
Oh! I flush and snatch my hand back. My breathing and heart rate increase. Holy cow.
“There’s a fine line between pleasure and pain, Anastasia,” he says softly as he leans down and
puts the device back in the drawer.
“Clothespins?” I whisper.
“You can do a great deal with a clothespins.” His gray eyes burn.
I lean against the drawer so it closes.
“Is that all?” Christian looks amused.
“No...” I pull open the fourth drawer to be confounded by a mass of leather and straps. I tug at
one of the straps... it appears to be attached to a ball.
“Ball gag. To keep you quiet,” says Christian, amused once more.“Soft limit,” I mutter.
“I remember,” he says. “But you can still breathe. Your teeth clamp over the ball.” Taking it from
me, he replicates a mouth clamping down on the ball with his fingers.
“Have you worn one of these?” I ask.
He stills and gazes down at me. “Yes.”
“To mask your screams?”
He closes his eyes, and I think it’s in exasperation. “No, that’s not what they’re about.”
Oh?
“It’s about control, Anastasia. How helpless would you be if you were tied up and couldn’t
speak? How trusting would you have to be, knowing I had that much power over you? That I had to
read your body and your reaction, rather than hear your words? It makes you more dependent, puts me
in ultimate control.”
I swallow.
“You sound like you miss it.”
“It’s what I know,” he murmurs, gazing down at me. His gray eyes are wide and serious, and the
atmosphere between us has changed as if he’s in the confessional.
“You have power over me. You know you do,” I whisper.
“Do I? You make me feel... helpless.”
“No!” Oh Fifty... “Why?”
“Because you’re the only person I know who could really hurt me.” He reaches up and tucks my
hair behind my ear.
“Oh, Christian... that works both ways. If you didn’t want me—” I shudder, glancing down at my
twisting fingers. Therein lays my other dark reservation about us. If he wasn’t so... broken, would he
want me? I shake my head. I must try not to think like that.
“The last thing I want to do is hurt you. I love you,” I murmur, reaching up to run my fingers
through his sideburn and gently stroke his cheek. He leans his face into my touch, drops the gag back
in the drawer, and reaches for me, his hands around my waist. He pulls me against him.
“Have we finished show and tell?” he asks, his voice soft and seductive. His hand moves up my
back to the nape of my neck.
“Why? What did you want to do?”
He bends and kisses me gently, and I melt against him, grasping his arms.
“Ana, you were nearly attacked today.” His voice is soft but ice-cold and wary.
“So?” I ask, enjoying the feel of his hand at my back and his proximity. He pulls his head back
and scowls down at me.
“What do you mean, ‘so?’ ” he rebukes.
I gaze up into his lovely, grumpy face, and I’m dazzled.
“Christian, I’m fine.”
He wraps me in his arms, holding me close. “When I think what might have happened,” he
breathes, burying his face in my hair.
“When will you learn that I’m stronger than I look?” I whisper reassuringly into his neck,
inhaling his delicious scent. There is nothing better on the planet than being in Christian’s arms.
“I know you’re strong,” Christian muses quietly. He kisses my hair, then to my great
disappointment, releases me. Oh?
Bending down I fish another item out of the open drawer. Several cuffs attached to a bar. I hold it
up.
“That,” says Christian, his eyes darkening, “is a spreader bar with ankle and wrist restraints.”
“How does it work?” I ask, genuinely intrigued. My inner goddess pops her head out of herbunker.
“You want me to show you?” he breathes in surprise, closing his eyes briefly.
I blink at him. When he opens his eyes, they are blazing.
Oh my. “Yes, I want a demonstration. I like being tied up,” I whisper as my inner goddess pole
vaults from the bunker onto her chaise longue.
“Oh, Ana,” he murmurs. He looks pained all of a sudden.
“What?”
“Not here.”
“What do you mean?”
“I want you in my bed, not in here. Come.” He grabs the bar and my hand, then leads me
promptly out of the room.
Why are we leaving? I glance behind me as we exit. “Why not in there?”
Christian stops on the stairs and gazes up at me, his expression grave.
“Ana, you may be ready to go back in there, but I’m not. Last time we were in there, you left me.
I keep telling you—when will you understand?” He frowns, releasing me so that he can gesticulate
with his free hand.
“My whole attitude has changed as a result. My whole outlook on life has radically shifted. I’ve
told you this. What I haven’t told you is—” He stops and runs his hand through his hair, searching for
the correct words. “I’m like a recovering alcoholic, okay? That’s the only comparison I can draw. The
compulsion has gone, but I don’t want to put temptation in my way. I don’t want to hurt you.”
He looks so remorseful, and in that moment, a sharp nagging pain lances through me. What have
I done to this man? Have I improved his life? He was happy before he met me, wasn’t he?
“I can’t bear to hurt you because I love you,” he adds, gazing up at me, his expression one of
absolute sincerity like a small boy telling a very simple truth.
He’s completely guileless, and he takes my breath away. I adore him more than anything or
anyone. I do love this man unconditionally.
I launch myself at him so hard that he has to drop what he’s carrying to catch me as I push him
up against the wall. Grabbing his face between my hands, I pull his lips to mine. I can taste his
surprise as I push my tongue into his mouth. I am standing on the step above him—we’re at the same
level, and I feel euphorically empowered. Kissing him passionately, my fingers twisting into his hair,
I want to touch him, everywhere, but restrain myself, knowing his fear. Regardless, my desire unfurls,
hot and heavy, blossoming deep inside me. He groans and grabs my shoulders, pushing me away.
“Do you want me to fuck you on the stairs?” he mutters, his breathing ragged. “Because right
now, I will.”
“Yes,” I murmur and I’m sure my dark gaze matches his.
He glares at me, his eyes hooded and heavy. “No. I want you in my bed.” He scoops me up
suddenly over his shoulder, making me squeal, loudly, and smacks me hard on my behind, so that I
squeal again. As he heads down the stairs, he stoops to pick up the fallen spreader bar.
Mrs. Jones is coming out of the utility room when we pass through the hall. She smiles at us, and
I give her an apologetic upside-down wave. I don’t think Christian notices her.
In the bedroom, he sets me down on my feet and drops the spreader on to the bed.
“I don’t think you’ll hurt me,” I breathe.
“I don’t think I’ll hurt you, either,” he says. He takes my head in his hands and kisses me, long
and hard, igniting my already heated blood.
“I want you so much,” he whispers against my mouth, panting. “Are you sure about this—after
today?’“Yes. I want you, too. I want to undress you.” I can’t wait to get my hands on him—my fingers
are itching to touch him.
His eyes widen and for a moment, he hesitates, perhaps to consider my request.
“Okay,” he says cautiously.
I reach for the second button on his shirt and hear him catch his breath.
“I won’t touch you if you don’t want me to,” I whisper.
“No,” he responds quickly. “Do. It’s fine. I’m good,” he mutters.
I gently undo the button and my fingers glide down his shirt to the next. His eyes are large and
luminous, his lips parted as his breathing shallows. He is so beautiful, even in his fear... because of his
fear. I undo the third button and notice his soft hair poking through the large V of the shirt.
“I want to kiss you there,” I murmur.
He inhales sharply. “Kiss me?”
“Yes,” I murmur.
His gasps as I undo the next button and very slowly lean forward, making my intention clear.
He’s holding his breath, but stands stock-still as I plant a gentle kiss among the soft, exposed curls. I
undo the final button and lift my face to him. He’s gazing at me, and there’s a look of satisfaction,
calm, and... wonder on his face.
“It’s getting easier, isn’t it?” I whisper.
He nods as I slowly push his shirt off his shoulders and let it fall to the floor.
“What have you done to me, Ana?” he murmurs. “Whatever it is, don’t stop.” And he gathers me
in his arms, fisting both his hands in my hair and pulling my head right back so that he can have easy
access to my throat.
He runs his lips up to my jaw, nipping softly. I groan. Oh, I want this man. My fingers fumble at
his waistband, undoing the button and pulling down the zipper.
“Oh, baby,” he breathes as he kisses me behind my ear. I feel his erection, firm and hard,
straining against me. I want him—in my mouth. I step back abruptly and drop to my knees.
“Whoa?” he gasps.
I tug his pants and boxers sharply, and he springs free. Before he can stop me, I take him into my
mouth, sucking hard, enjoying his shocked astonishment as his mouth drops open. He gazes down at
me, watching my every move, eyes so dark and filled with carnal bliss. Oh my. I sheath my teeth and
suck harder. He closes his eyes and surrenders to this blissful carnal pleasure is so arousing. I know
what I do to him, and it’s hedonistic, liberating, and sexy as hell. The feeling is heady, I’m not just
powerful—I’m omniscient.
“Fuck,” he hisses and gently cradles my head, flexing his hips so he moves deeper inside my
mouth. Oh yes, I want this and I swirl my tongue around him, pulling hard... over and over.
“Ana.” He tries to step back.
Oh no you don’t, Grey. I want you. I grab his hips firmly, doubling my efforts, and I can tell he’s
close.
“Please,” he pants. “I’m gonna come, Ana,” he groans.
Good. My inner goddess’s head is thrown back in ecstasy, and he comes, loudly and wetly, into
my mouth.
He opens his bright gray eyes, gazing down at me, and I smile up at him, licking my lips. He
grins back at me, a wicked, salacious grin.
“Oh, so this is the game we’re playing, Miss Steele?” He bends, hooks his hands under my arms,
and pulls me to my feet. Suddenly his mouth is on mine. He groans.
“I can taste myself. You taste better,” he murmurs against my lips. He tugs my T-shirt off and
throws it carelessly onto the floor, then picks me up and tosses me onto the bed. Grabbing the end ofmy sweats, he tugs abruptly so that they come off in one swift move. I’m naked underneath, sprawled
across his bed. Waiting. Wanting. His eyes drink me in, and slowly he removes his remaining clothes,
not taking his eyes off me.
“You are one beautiful woman, Anastasia,” he murmurs appreciatively.
Hmm... I tilt my head coquettishly to one side and beam at him.
“You are one beautiful man, Christian, and you taste mighty fine.”
He gives me a wicked grin and reaches for the spreader bar. Grabbing my left ankle, he quickly
cuffs it, strapping the buckle tightly, but not too tight. He tests how much room I have by sliding his
little finger between the cuff and my ankle. He doesn’t take his eyes off mine; he doesn’t need to see
what he’s doing. Hmm... he’s done this before.
“We’ll have to see how you taste. If I recall, you’re a rare, exquisite delicacy, Miss Steele.”
Oh.
Grasping my other ankle, he quickly and efficiently cuffs that one as well, so that my feet are
about two feet apart.
“The good thing about this spreader is, it expands,” he murmurs. He clicks something on the bar,
then pushes, so my legs spread further. Whoa, three feet apart. My mouth drops open, and I take a
deep breath. Fuck, this is hot. I’m on fire, restless and needy.
Christian licks his lower lip.
“Oh, we’re going to have some fun with this, Ana.” Reaching down he grasps the bar and twists it
so I flip on to my front. It takes me by surprise.
“See what I can do to you?” he says darkly and twists it again abruptly, so I am once more on my
back, gaping up at him, breathless.
“These other cuffs are for your wrists. I’ll think about that. Depends if you behave or not.”
“When do I not behave?”
“I can think of a few infractions,” he says softly, running his fingers up the soles of my feet. It
tickles, but the bar holds me in place, though I try to writhe away from his fingers.
“Your Blackberry, for one.”
I gasp. “What are you going to do?”
“Oh, I never disclose my plans.” He smirks, his eyes alight with pure devilment.
Holy cow. He’s so mind-bogglingly sexy, it takes my breath away.
He crawls up the bed so that he’s kneeling between my legs, gloriously naked, and I’m helpless.
“Hmm. You are so exposed, Miss Steele.” He runs the fingers of both his hands up the inside of
each of my legs, slowly, surely, making small circular patterns. Never breaking eye contact with me.
“It’s all about anticipation, Ana. What will I do to you?” His softly spoken words penetrate right
to the deepest, darkest, part of me. I wriggle on the bed and moan. His fingers continue their slow
assault up my legs, past the backs of my knees. Instinctively, I want to close my legsbut I can’t.
“Remember, if you don’t like something, just tell me to stop,” he murmurs. Bending over, he
kisses my belly, soft, sucky kisses while his hands continue their slow tortuous journey north up my
inner thighs, touching and teasing.
“Oh please, Christian,” I plead.
“Oh, Miss Steele. I’ve discovered you can be merciless in your amorous assaults upon me. I think
I should return the favor.”
My fingers clutch the duvet as I surrender myself to him, his mouth gently heading south, his
fingers north, to the vulnerable and exposed apex of my thighs. I groan as he eases his fingers inside
me and buck my pelvis up to meet them. Christian moans in response.
“You never cease to amaze me, Ana. You’re so wet,” he murmurs against the line where my
pubic hair joins my belly. My body bows as his mouth finds me.Oh my.
He begins a slow and sensual assault, his tongue swirling around and around while his fingers
move inside me. Because I can’t close my legs, or move, it’s intense, really intense. My back arches
as I try to absorb the sensations.
“Oh, Christian,” I cry.
“I know, baby,” he whispers, and to ease up on me, he blows softly on the most sensitive part of
my body.
“Arrgh! Please!” I beg.
“Say my name,” he commands.
“Christian,” I call, hardly recognizing my own voice—it’s so high-pitched and needy.
“Again,” he breathes.
“Christian, Christian, Christian Grey,” I call out loudly.
“You are mine.” His voice is soft and deadly and with one last flick of his tongue, I fall—
spectacularly—embracing my orgasm, and because my legs are so far apart, it goes on and on and I
am lost.
Vaguely, I’m aware that Christian has flipped me on to my front.
“We’re going to try this, baby. If you don’t like it, or it’s too uncomfortable, tell me, and we’ll
stop.”
What? I am too lost in the afterglow to form any sentient or coherent thoughts. I am sitting on
Christian’s lap. How did that happen?
“Lean down, baby,” he murmurs at my ear. “Head and chest on the bed.”
In a daze I do as I’m told. He pulls both my hands backward and cuffs them to the bar, next to my
ankles. Oh... My knees are drawn up, my ass in the air, utterly vulnerable, completely his.
“Ana, you look so beautiful.” His voice is full of wonder, and I hear the rip of foil. He runs his
fingers from the base of my spine down toward my sex and pauses a beat over my ass.
“When you’re ready, I want this, too.” His finger is hovering over me. I gasp loudly as I feel
myself tense under his gentle probing. “Not today, sweet Ana, but one day... I want you every way. I
want to possess every inch of you. You’re mine.”
I think about the butt plug, and everything tightens deep inside me. His words make me groan,
and his fingers move down and around to more familiar territory.
Moments later, he’s slamming into me. “Aagh! Gently,” I cry, and he stills.
“You okay?”
“Gently... let me get used to this.”
He eases slowly out of me then eases gently back, filling me, stretching me, twice, thrice, and I
am helpless.
“Yes, good, I’ve got it now,” I murmur, relishing the feeling.
He groans, and picks up his rhythm. Moving, moving... relentless... onward, inward, filling me...
and it’s exquisite. There’s joy in my helplessness, joy in my surrender to him, and to know that he can
lose himself in me the way he wants to. I can do this. He takes me to these dark places, places I didn’t
know existed, and together we fill them with blinding light. Oh yes... blazing, blinding light.
And I let go, glorying in what he does to me, finding my sweet, sweet release, as I come again,
loudly, screaming his name. And he stills, pouring his heart and soul into me.
“Ana, baby,” he cries and collapses beside me.His fingers deftly undo the straps, and he rubs my ankles then my wrists. When he’s finished and I’m
finally free, he pulls me into his arms and I drift, exhausted.
When I surface again, I am curled beside him and he’s gazing at me. I have no idea what the time
is.
“I could watch you sleep forever, Ana,” he murmurs and he kisses my forehead.
I smile and shift languorously beside him.
“I never want to let you go,” he says softly and wraps his arms around me.
Hmm.“I never want to go. Never let me go,” I mutter sleepily, my eyelids refusing to open.
“I need you,” he whispers, but his voice is a distant, ethereal part of my dreams. He needs me...
needs me... and as I finally slip into the darkness, my last thoughts are of a small boy with gray eyes
and dirty, messy, copper-colored hair smiling shyly at me.Hmm.
Christian is nuzzling my neck as I slowly wake.
“Morning, baby,” he whispers and nips at my earlobe. My eyes flutter open and close again
quickly. Bright early morning light floods the room, and his hand is softly caressing my breast, gently
teasing me. Moving down he grasps my hip as he lies behind me, holding me close.
I stretch out beside him, relishing his touch, and feel his erection against my behind. Oh my. A
Christian Grey wake-up call.
“You’re pleased to see me,” I mumble sleepily, squirming suggestively against him. I feel his
grin against my jaw.
“I’m very pleased to see you,” he says as he skates his hand over my stomach and down to cup
my sex and explore with his fingers. “There are definite advantages to waking up beside you, Miss
Steele,” he teases and gently pulls me round so that I’m lying on my back.
“Sleep well?” he asks as his fingers continue their sensual torture. He’s smiling down at me—his
dazzling, all-American-drop-dead-male-model-perfect-teeth smile. He takes my breath away.
My hips begin to sway to the rhythm of the dance his fingers have begun. He kisses me chastely
on the lips and then moves down my neck, nipping slowly, kissing, and sucking as he goes. I moan.
He’s gentle and his touch is light and heavenly. His intrepid fingers move down, and slowly he eases
one inside me, hissing quietly in awe.
“Oh, Ana,” he murmurs reverentially against my throat. “You’re always ready.” He moves his
finger in time with his kisses as his lips journey leisurely across my clavicle and then down to my
breast. He torments first one, then the other nipple with teeth and lips, but oh-so-gently, and they
tighten and lengthen in sweet response.
I groan.
“Hmm,” he growls softly and raises his head to give me a blazing gray-eyed look. “I want you
now.” He reaches over to the bedside table. He shifts on top of me, taking his weight on his elbows,
and rubs his nose along mine while easing my legs apart with his. He kneels up and rips open the foil
packet.
“I can’t wait until Saturday,” he says, his eyes glowing with salacious delight.
“Your party?” I pant.“No. I can stop using these fuckers.”
“Aptly named.” I giggle.
He smirks at me as he rolls on the condom. “Are you giggling, Miss Steele?”
“No.” I try and fail to straighten my face.
“Now is not the time for giggling.” He shakes his head in admonishment and his voice is low,
stern, but his expression—holy cow—is glacial and volcanic at once.
My breath catches in my throat. “I thought you liked it when I giggle,” I whisper hoarsely, gazing
into the dark depths of his stormy eyes.
“Not now. There’s a time and a place for giggling. This is neither. I need to stop you, and I think I
know how,” he says ominously, and his body covers mine.
“What would you like for breakfast, Ana?”
“I’ll just have some granola. Thank you, Mrs. Jones.”
I flush as I take my place at the breakfast bar beside Christian. The last time I set eyes on the
very prim and proper Mrs. Jones, I was being unceremoniously dragged into the bedroom over
Christian’s shoulder.
“You look lovely,” Christian says softly. I’m wearing my gray pencil skirt and gray silk blouse
again.
“So do you.” I smile shyly at him. He’s wearing a pale blue shirt and jeans, and he looks cool and
fresh and perfect, as always.
“We should buy you some more skirts,” he says matter-of-factly. “In fact—I’d love to take you
shopping.”
Hmm—shopping. I hate shopping. But with Christian, maybe it won’t be so bad. I decide on
distraction as the best form of defense.
“I wonder what will happen at work today?”
“They’ll have to replace the sleazeball.” Christian frowns, scowling as if he’s just stepped in
something extraordinarily unpleasant.
“I hope they take on a woman as my new boss.”
“Why?”
“Well, you’re less likely to object to me going away with her,” I tease him.
His lips twitch and he starts on his omelet.
“What’s so funny?” I ask.
“You are. Eat your granola, all of it, if that’s all you’re having.”
Bossy as ever. I purse my lips at him, but dig in.
“So, the key goes here.” Christian points out the ignition beneath the gearshift.
“Strange place,” I mutter. But I’m delighted with every little detail, practically bouncing like a
small child in the comfortable leather seat. Christian has finally let me drive my car.
He regards me coolly, though his eyes are alight with humor. “You’re quite excited about this,
aren’t you?” he murmurs, amused.
I nod, grinning like a fool. “Just smell that new car smell. This is even better than the Submissive
Special... um, the A3,” I add quickly, blushing.Christian’s mouth twists. “Submissive Special, eh? You have such a way with words, Miss
Steele.” He leans back with a faux look of disapproval, but he can’t fool me. I know he’s enjoying
himself.
“Well, let’s go.” He waves his long-fingered hand toward the entrance of the garage.
I clap my hands, start the car, and the engine purrs to life. Putting the gearshift into drive, I ease
my foot off the brake and the Saab moves smoothly forward. Taylor starts up the Audi behind us and
once the garage barrier lifts, follows us out of Escala onto the street.
“Can we have the radio on?” I ask as we wait at the first stop sign.
“I want you to concentrate,” he says sharply.
“Christian, please, I can drive with music on.” I roll my eyes. He scowls for a moment and then
reaches for the radio.
“You can play your iPod and mp3 discs as well as CDs on this,” he murmurs.
The too-loud dulcet tones of The Police suddenly fill the car. Christian turns the music down.
Hmm... “King of Pain.”
“Your anthem,” I tease him, then instantly regret it when his mouth tightens in a thin line. Oh no.
“I have this album, somewhere.” I continue hastily to distract him. Hmm... somewhere in the
apartment I have spent very little time in.
I wonder how Ethan is. I should try to call him today. I won’t have much to do at work.
Anxiety blooms in my stomach. What will happen when I get to the office? Will everyone know
about Jack? Will everyone know of Christian’s involvement? Will I still have a job? Sheesh, if I have
no job, what will I do?
Marry the gazillionaire, Ana! My subconscious has her snarky face on. I ignore her—rapacious
bitch.
“Hey, Miss Smart Mouth. Come back.” Christian drags me into the here and now as I pull up at
the next stoplight.
“You’re very distracted. Concentrate, Ana,” he scolds. “Accidents happen when you don’t
concentrate.”
Oh, for heaven’s sake —and suddenly I’m catapulted back in time to when Ray was teaching me
to drive. I don’t need another father. A husband maybe, a kinky husband. Hmm.
“I’m just thinking about work.”
“Baby, you’ll be fine. Trust me.” Christian smiles.
“Please don’t interfere—I want to do this on my own. Christian, please. It’s important to me,” I
say as gently as I can. I don’t want to argue. His mouth sets once more into a hard stubborn line, and I
think he’s going to berate me again.
Oh no.
“Let’s not argue, Christian. We’ve had such a wonderful morning. And last night was—” Words
fail me, last night was—“Heaven.”
He says nothing. I glance over at him and his eyes are closed.
“Yes. Heaven,” he says softly. “I meant what I said.”
“What?”
“I don’t want to let you go.”
“I don’t want to go.”
He smiles and it’s this new, shy smile that dissolves everything in its path. Boy, it’s powerful.
“Good,” he says simply, and he visibly relaxes.
I drive into the parking lot half a block from SIP.
“I’ll walk you to work. Taylor will take me from there,” Christian offers. I clamber out of the car,restricted by my pencil skirt while Christian climbs out gracefully, at ease with his body or giving the
impression of someone at ease with his body. Hmm... someone who can’t bear to be touched can’t be
that at ease. I frown at my errant thought.
“Don’t forget we’re seeing Flynn at seven this evening,” he says as he holds his hand out to me. I
press the remote door lock and take his hand.
“I won’t forget. I’ll compile a list of questions for him.”
“Questions? About me?”
I nod.
“I can answer any questions you have about me.” Christian looks affronted.
I smile at him. “Yes, but I want the unbiased, expensive charlatan’s opinion.”
He frowns and suddenly pulls me into his embrace, holding both my hands tightly behind my
back.
“Is this a good idea?” he says, his voice low and husky. I lean back to see the anxiety looming
large and wide in his eyes. It tears at my soul.
“If you don’t want me to, I won’t.” I stare at him, blinking, wanting to caress the concern out of
his face. I tug on one of my hands and he frees it. I touch his cheek tenderly—it’s smooth from
shaving this morning.
“What are you worried about?” I ask, my voice soft and soothing.
“That you’ll go.”
“Christian, how many times do I have to tell you—I’m not going anywhere. You’ve already told
me the worst. I’m not leaving you.”
“Then why haven’t you answered me?”
“Answered you?” I murmur disingenuously.
“You know what I’m talking about, Ana.”
I sigh. “I want to know that I’m enough for you, Christian. That’s all.”
“And you won’t take my word for it?” he says exasperated, releasing me.
“Christian, this has all been so quick. And by your own admission, you’re fifty shades of fucked-
up. I can’t give you what you need,” I mutter. “It’s just not for me. But that makes me feel inadequate,
especially seeing you with Leila. Who’s to say that one day you won’t meet someone who likes doing
what you do? And who’s to say you won’t, you know... fall for her? Someone much better suited to
your needs.” The thought of Christian with anyone else sickens me. I stare down at my knotted
fingers.
“I knew several women who like doing what I like to do. None of them appealed to me the way
you do. I’ve never had an emotional connection with any of them. It’s only ever been you, Ana.”
“Because you never gave them a chance. You’ve spent too long locked up in your fortress,
Christian. Look, let’s discuss this later. I have to go to work. Maybe Dr. Flynn can offer us his
insight.” This is all far too heavy a discussion for a parking lot at eight fifty in the morning, and
Christian, for once, seems to agree. He nods but his eyes are wary.
“Come,” he orders, holding out his hand.
When I reach my desk, I find a note asking me to go straight to Elizabeth’s office. My heart leaps into
my mouth. Oh, this is it. I’m going to get fired.
“Anastasia.” Elizabeth smiles kindly, waving me into a chair before her desk. I sit and gaze at her
expectantly, hoping that she can’t hear my thumping heart. She smoothes her thick black hair andregards with me with somber, clear blue eyes.
“I have some rather sad news.”
Sad! Oh no.
“I’ve called you in to inform you that Jack has left the company rather suddenly.”
I flush. This isn’t sad for me. Should I tell her that I know?
“His rather hasty departure has left a vacancy, and we’d like you to fill it for now, until we find a
replacement.”
What? I feel the blood rush from my head. Me?
“But, I’ve only been here for a week or so.”
“Yes, Anastasia, I understand but Jack was always a champion of your abilities. He had high
hopes for you.”
I stop breathing. He had high hopes of getting me on my back, sure.
“Here’s a detailed job description. Have a good look through it, and we can discuss it later
today.”
“But—”
“Please, I know this is sudden, but you’ve already made contact with Jack’s key authors. Your
chapter notes haven’t gone unnoticed by the other commissioning editors. You have a shrewd mind,
Anastasia. We all think you can do it.”
“Okay.” This is unreal.
“Look, think about it. In the meantime, you can take Jack’s office.”
She stands, effectively dismissing me, and holds out her hand. I shake it in a complete daze.
“I’m glad he’s gone,” she whispers and a haunted look crosses her face. Holy shit. What did he
do to her?
Back at my desk, I grab my Blackberry and call Christian.
He answers on the second ring. “Anastasia. You okay?” he asks concerned.
“They’ve just given me Jack’s job to mind, temporarily,” I blurt out.
“You’re kidding,” he whispers, shocked.
“Did you have anything to do with this?” My voice is sharper than I mean it to be.
“No—no, not at all. I mean, with all due respect, Anastasia, you’ve only been there for a week or
so—and I don’t mean that unkindly.”
“I know.” I frown. “Apparently Jack really rated me.”
“Did he now?” Christian’s tone is frosty and then he sighs.
“Well, baby, if they think you can do it, I’m sure you can. Congratulations. Perhaps we should
celebrate after we’ve seen Flynn.”
“Hmm. Are you sure you had nothing to do with this?”
He is silent for a moment, and then he says in a low menacing voice. “Do you doubt me? It
angers me that you do.”
I swallow. Boy, he gets mad so easily. “I’m sorry,” I breathe, chastened.
“If you need anything, let me know. I’ll be here. And Anastasia?”
“What?”
“Use your Blackberry,” he adds tersely.
“Yes, Christian.”
He doesn’t hang up as I expect him to but takes a deep breath.
“I mean it. If you need me, I’m here.” His words are much softer, conciliatory. Oh, he’s so
mercurial... his mood swings are like a metronome set at presto.
“Okay,” I murmur. “I’d better go. I have to move offices.”“If you need me. I mean it,” he murmurs.
“I know, thank you, Christian. I love you.”
I sense his grin at the other end of the phone. I’ve won him back.
“I love you, too, baby.” Oh, will I ever tire of him saying those words to me?
“I’ll talk to you later.”
“Laters, baby.”
I hang up and glance at Jack’s office. My office. Holy cow—Anastasia Steele, Acting
Commissioning Editor. Who would have thought? I should ask for more money.
What would Jack think if he knew? I shudder at the thought and wonder idly how he’s spent his
morning, not in New York as he expected. I stroll into his—my office—sit down at the desk, and start
reading the job description.
At twelve thirty, Elizabeth buzzes me.
“Ana, we need you in a meeting at one o’clock in the boardroom. Jerry Roach and Kay Bestie will
be there—you know, the company president and vice president? All the commissioning editors will be
attending.”
Shit!
“Do I need to prepare anything?”
“No, this is just an informal gathering we do once a month. Lunch will be provided.”
“I’ll be there.” I hang up.
Holy shit! I check through the current roster of Jack’s authors. Yes, I’ve pretty much got those
nailed. I have the five manuscripts he’s championing, plus two more, which should really be
considered for publication. I take a deep breath—I cannot believe it’s lunchtime already. The day has
flown by, and I’m loving it. There has been so much to absorb this morning. A ping from my calendar
announces an appointment.
Oh no—Mia! In all the excitement I have forgotten about our lunch. I fish out my Blackberry and
try frantically to find her phone number.
My phone buzzes.
“It’s him, in reception.” Claire’s voice is hushed.
“Who?” For a moment, I think it might be Christian.
“The blond god.”
“Ethan?”
Oh, what does he want? I immediately feel guilty for not having called him.
Ethan, dressed in a checked blue shirt, white T-shirt, and jeans, beams at me when I appear.
“Wow! You look hot, Steele,” he says, nodding appreciatively. He gives me a quick hug.
“Is everything okay?” I ask.
He frowns. “Everything’s fine, Ana. I just wanted to see you. I’ve not heard from you in a while,
and I wanted to check how Mr. Mogul was treating you.”
I flush and can’t help my smile.
“Okay!” Ethan exclaims, holding up his hands. “I can tell by the secret smile. I don’t want to
know any more. I came by on the off chance you could do lunch. I’m enrolling at Seattle for psych
courses in September. For my master’s.”
“Oh Ethan. So much has happened. I have a ton to tell you, but right now, I can’t. I have a
meeting.” An idea hits me hard. “And I wonder if you can do me a really, really, really big favor?” I
clasp my hands together in supplication.
“Sure,” he says, bemused by my pleading.
“I’m supposed to be having lunch with Christian and Elliot’s sister—but I can’t get hold of her,
and this meeting’s just been sprung on me. Please will you take her for lunch? Please?”“Aw, Ana! I don’t want to babysit some brat.”
“Please, Ethan.” I give him the biggest-bluest-longest-eye-lashed look that I can manage. He rolls
his eyes and I know I’ve got him.
“You’ll cook me something?” he mutters.
“Sure, whatever, whenever.”
“So where is she?”
“She’s due here now.” And as if on cue, I hear her voice.
“Ana!” she calls from the front door.
We both turn, and there she is—all curvaceous and tall with her sleek black bob—wearing a short
mint-green minidress and matching high-heeled pumps with straps around her slim ankles. She looks
stunning.
“The brat?” he whispers, gaping at her.
“Yes. The brat that needs babysitting,” I whisper back. “Hi, Mia.” I give her a quick hug as she
stares rather blatantly at Ethan.
“Mia—this is Ethan, Kate’s brother.”
He nods, his eyebrows raised in surprise. Mia blinks several times as she gives him her hand.
“Delighted to meet you,” Ethan murmurs smoothly and Mia blinks again—silent for once. She
blushes.
Holy cow. I don’t think I’ve ever seen her blush.
“I can’t make lunch,” I say lamely. “Ethan has agreed to take you, if that’s okay? Can we have a
rain check?”
“Sure,” she says quietly. Mia quiet, this is novel.
“Yeah, I’ll take it from here. Laters, Ana,” Ethan says, offering Mia his arm. She accepts it with a
shy smile.
“Bye, Ana.” Mia turns to me and mouths, “Oh. My. God!” giving me an exaggerated wink.
Jeez... she likes him! I wave at them as they leave the building. I wonder what Christian’s attitude
is about his sister dating? The thought makes me uneasy. She’s my age, so he can’t object, can he?
This is Christian we’re dealing with. My snarky subconscious is back, hatchet-mouthed, cardigan
and purse in the crook of her arm. I shake off the image. Mia is a grown woman and Christian can be
reasonable, can’t he? I dismiss the thought and head back to Jack’s... er... my office to prep for the
meeting.
It’s three thirty when I return. The meeting went well. I have even secured approval to progress
the two manuscripts I was championing. It’s a heady feeling.
On my desk is an enormous wicker basket crammed with stunning white and pale pink roses.
Wow—the fragrance alone is heavenly. I smile as I pick up the card. I know who sent them.
Congratulations, Miss Steele
And all on your own!
No help from your overfriendly, neighborhood, megalomaniac CEO
Love
Christian
I pick up my Blackberry to e-mail him.From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Megalomaniac...
Date: June 16, 2011 15:43
To: Christian Grey
...is my favorite type of maniac. Thank you for the beautiful flowers. They’ve arrived in a huge wicker basket that makes me think of picnics and blankets.
x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Fresh Air
Date: June 16, 2011 15:55
To: Anastasia Steele
Maniac, eh? Dr. Flynn may have something to say about that.
You want to go on a picnic?
We could have fun in the great outdoors, Anastasia . . .
How is your day going, baby?
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
Oh my. I flush reading his response.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Hectic
Date: June 16, 2011 16:00
To: Christian Grey
The day has flown by. I have hardly had a moment to myself to think about anything other than work. I think I can do this! I’ll tell you more when I’m home.
Outdoors sounds... interesting.
Love you.
A x
PS: Don’t worry about Dr. Flynn.
My phone buzzes. It’s Claire from reception, desperate to know who sent the flowers and what
happened to Jack. Holed up in the office all day, I have missed the gossip. I tell her quickly that the
flowers are from my boyfriend and that I know very little about Jack’s departure. My Blackberry
buzzes and I have another e-mail from Christian.From: Christian Grey
Subject: I’ll try...
Date: June 16, 2011 16:09
To: Anastasia Steele
... not to worry.
Laters, baby. x
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
At five thirty, I pack up my desk. I can’t believe how quickly the day has gone. I have to get back to
Escala and prepare to meet Dr. Flynn. I haven’t even had time to think of questions. Perhaps today we
can have an initial meeting, and maybe Christian will let me see him again. I shrug off the thought as I
dash out of the office, waving a quick good-bye to Claire.
I’ve also got Christian’s birthday to think about. I know what I’m going to give him. I’d like him
to have it tonight before we meet Flynn, but how? Beside the parking lot is a small store selling
touristy trinkets. Inspiration hits me and I duck inside.
Christian is on his Blackberry, standing and staring out the glass wall as I enter the great room half an
hour later. Turning, he beams at me and wraps up his call.
“Ros, that’s great. Tell Barney and we’ll go from there... Good-bye.”
He strides over to me as I stand shyly in the entryway. He’s changed now into a white T-shirt and
jeans, all bad boy and smoldering. Whoa.
“Good evening, Miss Steele,” he murmurs and he bends to kiss me. “Congratulations on your
promotion.” He wraps his arms around me. He smells delicious.
“You’ve showered.”
“I’ve just had a work-out with Claude.”
“Oh.”
“Managed to knock him on his ass twice.” Christian beams, boyish and pleased with himself. His
grin is infectious.
“That doesn’t happen often?”
“No. Very satisfying when it does. Hungry?”
I shake my head.
“What?” He frowns at me.
“I’m nervous. About Dr. Flynn.”
“Me, too. How was your day?” He releases me, and I him give a brief summary. He listens
attentively.
“Oh—there’s one more thing I should tell you,” I add. “I was supposed to have lunch with Mia.”
He raises his eyebrows, surprised. “You never mentioned that.”
“I know, I forgot. I couldn’t make it because of the meeting, and Ethan took her out to lunch
instead.”
His face darkens. “I see. Stop biting your lip.”
“I’m going to freshen up,” I say changing the subject and turning to leave before he can react anyfurther.
Dr. Flynn’s office is a short drive from Christian’s apartment. Very handy, I muse, for emergency
sessions.
“I usually run here from home,” Christian says as he parks my Saab. “This is a great car.” He
smiles at me.
“I think so, too.” I smile back at him. “Christian... I—” I gaze anxiously at him.
“What is it, Ana?”
“Here.” I pull the small black gift box from my purse. “This is for you for your birthday. I wanted
to give it to you now—but only if you promise not to open it until Saturday, okay?”
He blinks at me in surprise and swallows. “Okay,” he murmurs cautiously.
Taking a deep breath, I hand it to him, ignoring his bemused expression. He shakes the box, and it
produces a very satisfactory rattle. He frowns. I know he’s desperate to see what it contains. Then he
grins, his eyes alight with youthful, carefree excitement. Oh boy... he looks his age—and so beautiful.
“You can’t open it until Saturday,” I warn him.
“I get it,” he says. “Why are you giving this to me now?” He pops the box into the inside pocket
of his blue pinstriped jacket, close to his heart.
How apt, I muse. I smirk at him.
“Because I can, Mr. Grey.”
His mouth twists with wry amusement.
“Why, Miss Steele, you stole my line.”
We are ushered into Dr. Flynn’s palatial office by a brisk and friendly receptionist. She greets
Christian warmly, a little too warmly for my taste—jeez, she’s old enough to be his mother—and he
knows her name.
The room is understated: pale green with two dark green couches facing two leather winged
chairs, and it has the atmosphere of a gentlemen’s club. Dr. Flynn is seated at a desk at the far end of
the room.
As we enter, he stands and walks over to join us in the seating area. He wears black pants and a
pale-blue open-necked shirt—no tie. His bright blue eyes seem to miss nothing.
“Christian.” He smiles amicably.
“John.” Christian shakes John’s hand. “You remember Anastasia?”
“How could I forget? Anastasia, welcome.”
“Ana, please,” I mumble as he shakes my hand firmly. I do love his English accent.
“Ana,” he says kindly, ushering us toward the couches.
Christian gestures to one of them for me. I sit, trying to look relaxed, resting my hand on the
couch rest, and he sprawls on the other couch beside me so that we’re at right angles to each other. A
small table with a simple lamp is between us. I note with interest a box of tissues beside the lamp.
This isn’t what I expected. I had in my mind’s eye a stark white room with a black leather chaise
longue; my inner goddess might have felt more at home then.
Looking relaxed and in control, Dr. Flynn takes a seat in one of the winged chairs and picks up a
leather notepad. Christian crosses his legs, his ankle resting on his knee, and stretches one arm along
the back of the couch. Reaching across with his other hand, he finds my hand on the couch rest and
gives it a reassuring squeeze.
“Christian has requested that you accompany him to one of our sessions,” Dr. Flynn beginsgently. “Just so you know, we treat these sessions with absolute confidentiality—”
I raise my eyebrow at Flynn, halting him mid-speech.
“Oh—um... I’ve signed an NDA,” I murmur, embarrassed that he’s stopped. Both Flynn and
Christian stare at me, and Christian releases my hand.
“A non-disclosure agreement?” Dr. Flynn’s brow furrows, and he glances quizzically at
Christian.
Christian shrugs.
“You start all your relationships with women with an NDA?” Dr. Flynn asks him.
“The contractual ones, I do.”
Dr. Flynn’s lip twitches. “You’ve had other types of relationships with women?” he asks, and he
looks amused.
“No,” Christian answers after a beat, and he looks amused, too.
“As I thought.” Dr. Flynn turns his attention back to me. “Well, I guess we don’t have to worry
about confidentiality, but may I suggest that the two of you discuss this at some point? As I
understand, you’re no longer entering into that kind of contractual relationship.”
“Different kind of contract, hopefully,” says Christian softly, glancing at me. I flush and Dr.
Flynn narrows his eyes.
“Ana. You’ll have to forgive me, but I probably know a lot more about you than you think.
Christian has been very forthcoming.”
I glance nervously at Christian. What has he said?
“An NDA?” he continues. “That must have shocked you.”
I blink at him. “Oh, I think the shock of that has paled into insignificance, given Christian’s most
recent revelations,” I answer, my voice soft and hesitant. I sound so nervous.
“I’m sure.” Dr. Flynn smiles kindly at me. “So, Christian, what would you like to discuss?”
Christian shrugs like a surly teen. “Anastasia wanted to see you. Perhaps you should ask her.”
Dr. Flynn’s face registers his surprise once more, and he gazes shrewdly at me.
Holy shit. This is mortifying. I gaze down at my fingers.
“Would you be more comfortable if Christian left us for a while?”
My eyes dart to Christian and he’s gazing at me expectantly.
“Yes,” I whisper.
Christian frowns and opens his mouth but closes it again quickly and stands in one swift graceful
movement.
“I’ll be in the waiting room,” he says, his mouth a flat, grumpy line.
Oh no.
“Thank you, Christian,” Dr. Flynn says impassively.
Christian gives me one long, searching look then stalks out of the room—but he doesn’t slam the
door. Phew. I immediately relax.
“He intimidates you?”
“Yes. But not as much as he used to.” I feel disloyal but it’s the truth.
“That doesn’t surprise me, Ana. What can I help you with?”
I stare down at my knotted fingers. What can I ask?
“Dr. Flynn, I’ve never been in a relationship before, and Christian is... well, he’s Christian. And
over the last week or so, a great deal has happened. I haven’t had a chance to think things through.”
“What do you need to think through?”
I glance up at him, and his head is cocked to one side as he gazes at me with compassion, I think.
“Well... Christian tells me that he’s happy to give up... er—” I stumble and pause. This is so
much more difficult to discuss than I’d imagined.Dr. Flynn sighs. “Ana, in the very limited time that you’ve known him, you’ve made more
progress with my patient than I have in the last two years. You have had a profound effect on him.
You must see that.”
“He’s had a profound effect on me, too. I just don’t know if I’m enough. To fulfill his needs,” I
whisper.
“Is that what you need from me? Reassurance?”
I nod.
“Needs change,” he says simply. “Christian has found himself in a situation where his methods of
coping are no longer effective. Very simply, you’ve forced him to confront some of his demons and
rethink.”
I blink at him. This echoes what Christian has told me.
“Yes, his demons,” I murmur.
“We don’t dwell on them—they’re in the past. Christian knows what his demons are, as do I—
and now I’m sure you do, too. I’m much more concerned with the future and getting Christian to a
place where he wants to be.”
I frown and he raises an eyebrow.
“The technical term is SFBT—sorry.” He smiles. “That stands for Solution-Focused Brief
Therapy. Essentially, it’s goal oriented. We concentrate on where Christian wants to be and how to get
him there. It’s a dialectical approach. There’s no point in breast-beating about the past—all that’s
been picked over by every physician, psychologist, and psychiatrist Christian’s ever seen. We know
why he’s the way he is, but it’s the future that’s important. Where Christian envisages himself, where
he wants to be. It took you walking out on him to make him take this form of therapy seriously. He
realizes that his goal is a loving relationship with you. It’s that simple, and that’s what we’re working
on now. Of course there are obstacles—his haphephobia for one.”
Oh jeez... his what? I gasp.
“I’m sorry. I mean his fear of being touched,” Dr. Flynn says, shaking his head as if scolding
himself. “Which I’m sure you’re aware of.”
I flush and nod. Oh that!
“He has a morbid self-abhorrence. I’m sure that comes as no surprise to you. And of course
there’s the parasomnia... um—night terrors, sorry, to the layperson.”
I blink at him, trying to absorb all these long words. I know about all of this. But Flynn hasn’t
mentioned my central concern.
“But he’s a sadist. Surely, as such, he has needs which I can’t fulfill.”
Dr. Flynn actually rolls his eyes, and his mouth presses into a hard line. “That’s no longer
recognized as a psychiatric term. I don’t know how many times I have told him that. It’s not even
classified as a paraphilia any more, not since the nineties.”
Dr. Flynn has lost me again. I blink at him. He smiles kindly at me.
“This is a pet peeve of mine.” He shakes his head. “Christian just thinks the worst of any given
situation. It’s part of his self-abhorrence. Of course, there’s such a thing as sexual sadism, but it’s not
a disease; it’s a lifestyle choice. And if it’s practiced in a safe, sane relationship between consenting
adults, then it’s a nonissue. My understanding is that Christian has conducted all of his BDSM
relationships in this manner. You’re the first lover who hasn’t consented, so he’s not willing to do it.”
Lover!
“But surely it’s not that simple.”
“Why not?” Dr. Flynn shrugs good-naturedly.
“Well... the reasons he does it.”
“Ana, that’s the point. In terms of solution-focused therapy, it is that simple. Christian wants tobe with you. In order to do that, he needs to forego the more extreme aspects of that kind of
relationship. After all, what you’re asking for is not unreasonable... is it?”
I flush. No, it’s not unreasonable, is it?
“I don’t think so. But I worry that he does.”
“Christian recognizes that and has acted accordingly. He’s not insane.” Dr. Flynn sighs. “In a
nutshell, he’s not a sadist, Ana. He’s an angry, frightened, brilliant young man, who was dealt a shit
hand of cards when he was born. We can all beat our breasts about it, and analyze the who, the how
and the why to death—or Christian can move on and decide how he wants to live. He’d found
something that worked for him for a few years, more or less, but since he met you, it no longer works.
And as a consequence, he’s changing his modus operandi. You and I have to respect his choice and
support him in it.”
I gape at him. “That’s my reassurance?”
“As good as it gets, Ana. There are no guarantees in this life.” He smiles. “And that is my
professional opinion.”
I smile, too, weakly. Doctor jokes... jeez.
“But he thinks of himself as a recovering alcoholic.”
“Christian will always think the worst of himself. As I said, it’s part of his self-abhorrence. It’s in
his makeup, no matter what. Naturally he’s anxious about making this change in his life. He’s
potentially exposing himself to a whole world of emotional pain, which, incidentally, he had a taste of
when you left him. Naturally he’s apprehensive.” Dr. Flynn pauses. “I don’t mean to stress how
important a role you have in his Damascene conversion—his road to Damascus. But you have.
Christian would not be in this place if he had not met you. Personally I don’t think that an alcoholic is
a very good analogy, but if it works for him for now, then I think we should give him the benefit of the
doubt.”
Give Christian the benefit of the doubt. I frown at the thought.
“Emotionally, Christian is an adolescent, Ana. He bypassed that phase in his life totally. He’s
channeled all his energies into succeeding in the business world, and he has beyond all expectations.
His emotional world has to play catch-up.”
“So how do I help?”
Dr. Flynn laughs. “Just keep doing what you’re doing,” he grins at me. “Christian is head over
heels. It’s a delight to see.”
I flush, and my inner goddess is hugging herself with glee, but something bothers me.
“Can I ask you one more thing?”
“Of course.”
I take a deep breath. “Part of me thinks that if he wasn’t this broken he wouldn’t... want me.”
Dr. Flynn’s eyebrows shoot up in surprise. “That’s a very negative thing to say about yourself,
Ana. And frankly it says more about you than it does about Christian. It’s not quite up there with his
self-loathing, but I’m surprised by it.”
“Well, look at him... and then look at me.”
Dr. Flynn frowns. “I have. I see an attractive young man, and I see an attractive young woman.
Ana, why don’t you think of yourself as attractive?”
Oh no... I don’t want this to be about me. I stare down at my fingers. There’s a sharp knock on the
door that makes me jump. Christian comes back into the room, glaring at both of us. I flush and glance
quickly at Flynn, who is smiling benignly at Christian.
“Welcome back, Christian,” he says.
“I think time is up, John.”
“Nearly, Christian. Join us.”Christian sits down, beside me this time, and places his hand possessively on my knee. His action
does not go unnoticed by Dr. Flynn.
“Did you have any other questions, Ana?” Dr. Flynn asks and his concern is obvious. Shit... I
should not have asked that question. I shake my head.
“Christian?”
“Not today, John.”
Flynn nods.
“It may be beneficial if you both come again. I’m sure Ana will have more questions.”
Christian nods, reluctantly.
I flush. Shit... he wants to delve. Christian clasps my hand and regards me intently.
“Okay?” he asks softly.
I smile at him, nodding. Yes, we’re going for the benefit of the doubt, courtesy of the good doctor
from England.
Christian squeezes my hand and turns to Flynn.
“How is she?” he asks softly.
Me?
“She’ll get there,” he says reassuringly.
“Good. Keep me updated of her progress.”
“I will.”
Holy fuck. They’re talking about Leila.
“Shall we go and celebrate your promotion?” Christian asks me pointedly.
I nod shyly as Christian stands.
We say our quick good-byes to Dr. Flynn, and Christian ushers me out with unseemly haste.
In the street, he turns to me. “How was that?” his voice is anxious.
“It was good.”
He regards me suspiciously. I cock my head to one side.
“Mr. Grey, please don’t look at me that way. Under doctor’s orders I am going to give you the
benefit of the doubt.”
“What does that mean?”
“You’ll see.”
His mouth twists and his eyes narrow. “Get in the car,” he orders while opening the passenger
door of the Saab.
Oh, change of direction. My Blackberry buzzes. I haul it out of my purse.
Shit, José!
“Hi!”
“Ana, hi...”
I stare at Fifty, who is eyeing me suspiciously. “José,” I mouth at him. He stares impassively at
me, but his eyes harden. Does he think I don’t notice? I turn my attention back to José.
“Sorry I haven’t called you. Is it about tomorrow?” I ask José, but stare up at Christian.
“Yeah, listen—I spoke with some guy at Grey’s place, so I know where I’m delivering the
photos, and I should get there between five and six... after that, I’m free.”
Oh.
“Well, I’m actually staying with Christian at the moment, and if you want to, he says you canstay at his place.”
Christian presses his mouth in a hard line. Hmm—some host he is.
José is silent for a moment, absorbing this news. I cringe. I haven’t had a chance to talk to him
about Christian.
“Okay,” he says eventually. “This thing with Grey, it’s serious?”
I turn away from the car and pace to the other side of the sidewalk.
“Yes.”
“How serious?”
I roll my eyes and pause. Why does Christian have to be listening?
“Serious.”
“Is he with you now? That why you’re speaking in monosyllables?”
“Yes.”
“Okay. So are you allowed out tomorrow?”
“Of course I am.” I hope. I automatically cross my fingers.
“So where shall I meet you?”
“You could collect me from work,” I offer.
“Okay.”
“I’ll text you the address.”
“What time?”
“Say six?”
“Sure. I’ll see you then, Ana. Looking forward to it. I miss you.”
I grin. “Cool. I’ll see you then.” I switch the phone off and turn.
Christian is leaning against the car watching me carefully, his expression impossible to read.
“How’s your friend?” he asks coolly.
“He’s well. He’ll pick me up from work, and I think we’ll go for a drink. Would you like to join
us?”
Christian hesitates, his gray eyes cool. “You don’t think he’ll try anything?”
“No!” My tone is exasperated—but I refrain from rolling my eyes.
“Okay,” Christian holds his hands up in defeat. “You hang out with your friend, and I’ll see you
later in the evening.”
I was expecting a fight, and his easy acquiescence throws me off balance.
“See? I can be reasonable.” He smirks.
My mouth twists. We’ll see about that.
“Can I drive?”
Christian blinks at me, surprised by my request.
“I’d rather you didn’t.”
“Why, exactly?”
“Because I don’t like to be driven.”
“You managed this morning, and you seem to tolerate Taylor driving you.”
“I trust Taylor’s driving implicitly.”
“And not mine?” I put my hands on my hips. “Honestly—your control freakery knows no bounds.
I’ve been driving since I was fifteen.”
He shrugs in response, as if this is of no consequence whatsoever. Oh—he’s so exasperating!
Benefit of the doubt? Well, screw that.
“Is this my car?” I demand.
He frowns at me. “Of course it’s your car.”
“Then give me the keys, please. I’ve driven it twice, and only to and from work. Now you’rehaving all the fun.” I am in full-on pout mode. Christian’s lips twitch with a repressed smile.
“But you don’t know where we’re going.”
“I’m sure you can enlighten me, Mr. Grey. You’ve done a great job of it so far.”
He gazes at me stunned then smiles, his new shy smile that totally disarms me and takes my
breath away.
“Great job, eh?” he murmurs.
I blush. “Mostly, yes.”
“Well, in that case.” He hands me the keys, walks round to the driver’s door, and opens it for me.
“Left here,” Christian orders, and we head north toward the I-5. “Hell—gently, Ana.” He grabs hold of
the dashboard.
Oh, for heaven’s sake. I roll my eyes, but don’t turn to look at him. Van Morrison croons in the
background over the car sound system.
“Slow down!”
“I am slowing down!”
Christian sighs. “What did Flynn say?” I hear his anxiety leaching into his voice.
“I told you. He says I should give you the benefit of the doubt.” Damn—maybe I should have let
Christian drive. Then I could watch him. In fact... I signal to pull over.
“What are you doing?” he snaps, alarmed.
“Letting you drive.”
“Why?”
“So I can look at you.”
He laughs. “No, no—you wanted to drive. So, you drive, and I’ll look at you.”
I scowl at him. “Keep your eyes on the road!” he shouts.
My blood boils. Right! I pull over to the curb just before a stoplight and storm out of the car,
slamming the door, and stand on the sidewalk, arms folded, I glare at him. He climbs out of the car.
“What are you doing?” he asks angrily, staring down at me.
“No. What are you doing?”
“You can’t park here.”
“I know that.”
“So why have you?”
“Because I’ve had it with you barking orders. Either you drive or you shut up about my driving!”
“Anastasia, get back in the car before we get a ticket.”
“No.”
He blinks at me, at a total loss, then runs his hands through his hair, and his anger becomes
bewilderment. He looks so comical all of a sudden, and I can’t help but smile at him. He frowns.
“What?” he snaps once more.
“You.”
“Oh, Anastasia! You are the most frustrating female on the planet.” He throws his hands in the
air. “Fine—I’ll drive.” I grab the edges of his jacket and pull him to me.
“No—you are the most frustrating man on the planet, Mr. Grey.”
He gazes down at me, his eyes dark and intense, he snakes his arms around my waist and
embraces me, holding me close.
“Maybe we’re meant for each other, then,” he says softly and inhales deeply, his nose in my hair.I wrap my arms around him and close my eyes. For the first time since this morning, I feel myself
relax.
“Oh... Ana, Ana, Ana,” he breathes, his lips pressed against my hair. I tighten my arms around
him, and we stand, immobile, enjoying a moment of unexpected tranquility, on the street. Releasing
me, he opens the passenger door. I climb in and sit quietly, watching him walk around the car.
Restarting the car, Christian pulls out into the traffic, absentmindedly humming along to Van
Morrison.
Whoa. I’ve never heard him sing, not even in the shower, ever. I frown. He has a lovely voice—of
course. Hmm... has he heard me sing?
He wouldn’t be asking you to marry him if he had! My subconscious has her arms crossed and is
wearing Burberry check... jeez. The song finishes and Christian smirks.
“You know, if we had gotten a ticket, the title of this car is in your name.”
“Well, good thing I’ve been promoted—I can afford the fine,” I say smugly, staring at his lovely
profile. His lips twitch. Another Van Morrison song starts playing as he takes the on-ramp to I-5,
heading north.
“Where are we going?”
“It’s a surprise. What else did Flynn say?”
I sigh. “He talked about FFFSTB or something.”
“SFBT. The latest therapy option,” he mutters.
“You’ve tried others?”
Christian snorts. “Baby, I’ve been subjected to them all. Cognitivism, Freud, functionalism,
Gestalt, behaviorism... You name it, over the years I’ve done it,” he says and his tone betrays his
bitterness. The rancor in his voice is distressing.
“Do you think this latest approach will help?”
“What did Flynn say?”
“He said not to dwell on your past. Focus on the future—on where you want to be.”
Christian nods but shrugs at the same time, his expression cautious.
“What else?” he persists.
“He talked about your fear of being touched, although he called it something else. And about your
nightmares and your self-abhorrence.” I glance at him, and in the evening light, he’s pensive, chewing
on his thumbnail as he drives. He glances quickly at me.
“Eyes on the road, Mr. Grey,” I admonish, my eyebrow cocked at him.
He looks amused, and slightly exasperated. “You were talking forever, Anastasia. What else did
he say?”
I swallow. “He doesn’t think you’re a sadist,” I whisper.
“Really?” Christian says quietly and frowns. The atmosphere in the car takes a nosedive.
“He says that term’s not recognized in psychiatry. Not since the nineties,” I mutter, quickly
trying to rescue the mood between us.
Christian’s face darkens, and he exhales slowly.
“Flynn and I have differing opinions on this,” he says quietly.
“He said you always think the worst of yourself. I know that’s true,” I murmur. “He also
mentioned sexual sadism—but he said that was a lifestyle choice, not a psychiatric condition. Maybe
that’s what you’re thinking about.”
His gray eyes flash toward me again, and his mouth sets in a grim line.
“So—one talk with the good doctor and you’re an expert,” he says acidly and turns his eyes front.
Oh dear... I sigh.
“Look—if you don’t want to hear what he said, don’t ask me,” I mutter softly.I don’t want to argue. Anyway he’s right—what the hell do I know about all his shit? Do I even
want to know? I can list the salient points—his control freakery, his possessiveness, his jealousy, his
overprotectiveness—and I completely understand where he’s coming from. I can even understand why
he doesn’t like to be touched—I’ve seen the physical scars. I can only imagine the mental ones, and
I’ve only glimpsed his nightmares once. And Dr. Flynn said—
“I want to know what you discussed.” Christian interrupts my thoughts as he heads off I-5 on exit
172, heading west toward the slowly sinking sun.
“He called me your lover.”
“Did he now?” His tone is conciliatory. “Well, he’s nothing if not fastidious about his terms. I
think that’s an accurate description. Don’t you?”
“Did you think of your subs as lovers?”
Christian’s brow creases once more, but this time he’s thinking. He turns the Saab smoothly
north once again. Where are we going?
“No. They were sexual partners,” he murmurs, his voice cautious again. “You’re my only lover.
And I want you to be more.”
Oh... there’s that magical word again, brimming with possibility. It makes me smile, and inside I
hug myself, my inner goddess radiating joy.
“I know,” I whisper, trying hard to hide my excitement. “I just need some time, Christian. To get
my head around these last few days.” He glances at me oddly, perplexed, his head inclined to one side.
After a beat, the stoplight we’re stationed at turns green. He nods and turns the music up, and our
discussion is over.
Van Morrison is still singing—more optimistically now—about it being a marvelous night for
moondancing. I gaze out the windows at the pines and spruce dusted gold by the fading light of the
sun, their long shadows stretching across the road. Christian has turned into a more residential street,
and we’re heading west toward the Sound.
“Where are we going?” I ask again as we turn into a road. I catch a road sign—9th Ave NW. I am
baffled.
“Surprise,” he says and smiles mysteriously.Christian continues to drive past single-story, well-kept, clapboard houses where kids play either
clustered around their basketball hoops in their yards or cycling and running around in the street. It all
looks affluent and wholesome with the houses nestling among the trees. Perhaps we’re going to visit
someone? Who?
A few minutes later, Christian turns sharply left, and we’re confronted by two ornate white metal
gates set in a six-foot-high, sandstone wall. Christian presses a button on his door handle and the
electric window hums quietly down into the doorframe. He punches a number into the keypad and the
gates swing open in welcome.
He glances at me, and his expression has changed. He looks uncertain, nervous even.
“What is it?” I ask, and I can’t mask the concern in my voice.
“An idea,” he says quietly and eases the Saab through the gates.
We head up a tree-lined lane just wide enough for two cars. On one side, the trees ring a densely
wooded area, and on the other there’s a vast area of grassland where a once-cultivated field has been
left fallow. Grasses and wildflowers have reclaimed it, creating a rural idyll—a meadow, where the
late evening breeze softly ripples through the grass and the evening sun gilds the wildflowers. It’s
lovely—utterly tranquil, and suddenly I imagine myself lying in the grass and gazing up at a clear
blue summer sky. The thought is tantalizing yet makes me feel homesick for some strange reason.
How odd.
The lane curves around and opens into a sweeping driveway in front of an impressive
Mediterranean-style house of soft pink sandstone. It’s palatial. All the lights are on, each window
brightly illuminated in the dusk. There’s a smart, black BMW parked in front of the four-car garage,
but Christian pulls up outside the grand portico.
Hmm... I wonder who lives here? Why are we visiting?
Christian glances anxiously at me as he switches off the car engine.
“Will you keep an open mind?” he asks.
I frown.
“Christian, I’ve needed an open mind since the day I met you.”
He smiles ironically and nods. “Fair point well made, Miss Steele. Let’s go.”
The dark wood doors open, and a woman with dark brown hair, a sincere smile, and a sharp lilacsuit stands waiting. I’m grateful I changed into my new navy shift dress to impress Dr. Flynn. Okay,
I’m not wearing killer heels like her—but still, I’m not in jeans.
“Mr. Grey.” She smiles warmly and they shake hands.
“Miss Kelly,” he says politely.
She smiles at me and holds out her hand, which I shake. Her isn’t-he-dreamily-gorgeous-wish-he-
was-mine flush does not go unnoticed.
“Olga Kelly,” she announces breezily.
“Ana Steele,” I mutter back at her. Who is this woman? She stands aside, welcoming us into the
house. It’s a shock when I step in. The place is empty—completely empty. We find ourselves in a
large entrance hall. The walls are a faded primrose yellow with scuffmarks where pictures must once
have hung. All that remains are the old-fashioned crystal light fixtures. The floors are dull hardwood.
There are closed doors to either side of us, but Christian gives me no time to assimilate what’s
happening.
“Come,” he says, and taking my hand, he leads me through the archway in front of us into a
larger inner vestibule. It’s dominated by a curved, sweeping staircase with an intricate iron balustrade
but still he doesn’t stop. He takes me through to the main living area, which is empty, save for a large
faded gold rug—the biggest rug I have ever seen. Oh—and there are four crystal chandeliers.
But Christian’s intention is now clear as we head across the room and outside through open
French doors to a large stone terrace. Below us there’s half a football field of manicured lawn, but
beyond that is the view. Wow.
The panoramic, uninterrupted vista is breathtaking—staggering even: twilight over the Sound.
Oh my.
In the distance lies Bainbridge Island, and further still on this crystal clear evening, the setting
sun sinks slowly, glowing blood and flame orange, beyond Olympic National Park. Vermillion hues
bleed into the sky—opals, aquamarines, ceruleans—melding with the darker purples of the scant
wispy clouds and the land beyond the Sound. It is nature’s best, a visual symphony orchestrated in the
sky and reflected in the deep, still waters of the Sound. I am lost to the view—staring, trying to absorb
such beauty.
I realize I’m holding my breath in awe, and Christian is still holding my hand. As I reluctantly
turn my eyes away from the view, he’s gazing anxiously at me.
“You brought me here to admire the view?” I whisper. He nods, his expression serious.
“It’s staggering, Christian. Thank you,” I murmur, letting my eyes feast on it once more. He
releases my hand.
“How would you like to look at it for the rest of your life?” he breathes.
What? I whip my face back to his, startled blue eyes to pensive gray. I think my mouth drops
open, and I gape at him blankly.
“I’ve always wanted to live on the coast. I sail up and down the Sound coveting these houses.
This place hasn’t been on the market long. I want to buy it, demolish it, and build a new house—for
us,” he whispers, and his eyes glow, translucent with his hopes and dreams.
Holy cow. Somehow I remain upright. I’m reeling. Live, here! In this beautiful haven! For the
rest of my life...
“It’s just an idea,” he adds, cautiously.
I glance back to assess the interior of the house. How much is it worth? It must be, what—five,
ten million dollars? I have no idea. Holy shit.
“Why do you want to demolish it?” I ask, looking back at him. His face falls slightly. Oh no.
“I’d like to make a more sustainable home, using the latest ecological techniques. Elliot couldbuild it.”
I gaze back at the room again. Miss Olga Kelly is on the far side, hovering by the entrance. She’s
the realtor, of course. I notice the room is huge and double height, a little like the great room at
Escala. There’s a balcony above—that must be the landing on the second floor. There’s a huge
fireplace and a whole line of French doors opening onto the terrace. It has an old-world charm.
“Can we look around the house?”
He blinks at me. “Sure,” he shrugs, puzzled.
Miss Kelly’s face lights up like Christmas when we head back in. She’s delighted to take us on a
tour and gives us the spiel.
The house is enormous: twelve thousand square feet on six acres of land. As well as this main
living room, there’s the eat-in—no, banquet-in—kitchen with family room attached—Family!—a
music room, a library, a study and, much to my amazement, an indoor pool and exercise suite with
sauna and steam room attached. Downstairs in the basement there’s a cinema—Jeez—and game room.
Hmm... what sort of games could we play in here?
Miss Kelly points out all sorts of features, but basically the house is beautiful and was obviously
at one time a happy family home. It’s a little shabby now, but nothing that some TLC couldn’t cure.
As we follow Miss Kelly up the magnificent main stairs to the second floor, I can hardly contain
my excitement... this house has everything I could ever wish for in a home.
“Couldn’t you make the existing house more ecological and self-sustaining?”
Christian blinks at me, nonplussed. “I’d have to ask Elliot. He’s the expert in all this.”
Miss Kelly leads us into the master suite where full height windows open onto a balcony, and the
view is still spectacular. I could sit in bed and gaze out all day, watching the sailing boats and the
changing weather.
There are five additional bedrooms on this floor. Jeez—kids. I push the thought hastily to one
side. I have too much to process already. Miss Kelly is busily suggesting to Christian how the grounds
could accommodate riding stables and a paddock. Horses! Terrifying images of my few riding lessons
flash through my mind, but Christian doesn’t appear to be listening.
“The paddock would be where the meadow is at the moment?” I ask.
“Yes,” Miss Kelly says brightly.
To me the meadow looks like somewhere to lie in the long grass and have picnics, not for some
four-legged fiend of Satan to roam.
Back in the main room, Miss Kelly discreetly disappears, and Christian leads me out once more
onto the terrace. The sun has set and lights from the towns on the Olympic peninsula are twinkling on
the far side of the Sound.
Christian pulls me into his arms and tips my chin up with his index finger, staring intently down
at me.
“Lot to take in?” he asks, his expression unreadable.
I nod.
“I wanted to check you liked it before I bought it.”
“The view?”
He nods.
“I love the view, and I like the house that’s here.”
“You do?”
I smile shyly at him. “Christian, you had me at the meadow.”
His lips part as he inhales sharply, then his face transforms with a grin, and his hands are
suddenly fisting into my hair and his mouth is on mine.Back in the car as we head for Seattle, Christian’s mood has lifted considerably.
“So you’re going to buy it?” I ask.
“Yes.”
“You’ll put Escala on the market?”
He frowns. “Why would I do that?”
“To pay for...” My voice trails off—of course. I flush.
He smirks at me. “Trust me, I can afford it.”
“Do you like being rich?”
“Yes. Show me someone who doesn’t,” he says darkly.
Okay, get off that subject quickly.
“Anastasia, you’re going to have to learn to be rich, too, if you say yes,” he says softly.
“Wealth isn’t something I’ve ever aspired to, Christian.” I frown.
“I know. I love that about you. But then you’ve never been hungry,” he says simply. His words
are sobering.
“Where are we going?” I ask brightly, changing the subject.
“To celebrate.” Christian relaxes.
Oh! “Celebrate what, the house?”
“Have you forgotten already? Your acting editor role.”
“Oh yes.” I grin. Unbelievably, I had forgotten.
“Where?”
“Up high at my club.”
“Your club?”
“Yes. One of them.”
The Mile High Club is on the seventy-sixth floor of Columbia Tower, higher even than Christian’s
apartment. It’s very now and has the most head-spinning views over Seattle.
“Cristal, ma’am?” Christian hands me a glass of chilled champagne as I sit perched on a barstool.
“Why thank you, sir.” I stress the last word flirtatiously, batting my eyelashes at him
deliberately.
He gazes at me and his face darkens. “Are you flirting with me, Miss Steele?”
“Yes, Mr. Grey, I am. What are you going to do about it?”
“I’m sure I can think of something,” he says, his voice low. “Come—our table’s ready.”
As we approach the table, Christian stops me, his hand on my elbow.
“Go and take your panties off,” he whispers.
Oh? A delicious tingle runs down my spine.
“Go,” he commands quietly.
Whoa, what? I blink up at him. He’s not smiling—he’s dead serious. Every muscle below my
waistline tightens. I hand him my glass of champagne, turn sharply on my heel, and head for the
restroom.
Shit. What’s he going to do? Perhaps this club is aptly named.
The restrooms are the height of modern design—all dark wood, black granite, and pools of light
from strategically placed halogens. In the privacy of the stall, I smirk as I divest myself of my
underwear. Again I’m grateful I changed into the navy blue shift dress. I thought it appropriate attire
to meet the good Dr. Flynn—I hadn’t expected the evening to take this unexpected course.I am excited already. Why does he affect me so? I slightly resent how easily I fall under his spell.
I know now that we won’t be spending the evening talking through all our issues and recent events...
but how can I resist him?
Checking my appearance in the mirror, I am bright-eyed and flushed with excitement. Issues
schmissues.
I take a deep breath and head back out into the club. I mean, it’s not as if I haven’t gone panty
less before. My inner goddess is draped in a pink feather boa and diamonds, strutting her stuff in fuck-
me shoes.
Christian stands politely when I return to the table, his expression unreadable. He looks his usual
perfect, cool, calm, and collected self. Of course, I now know differently.
“Sit beside me,” he says. I slide into the seat and he sits. “I’ve ordered for you. I hope you don’t
mind.” He hands me my half-finished glass of champagne, regarding me intently and under his
scrutiny, my blood heats anew. He rests his hands on his thighs. I tense and part my legs slightly.
The waiter arrives with a dish of oysters on crushed ice. Oysters. The memory of the two of us in
the private dining room at the Heathman fills my mind. We were discussing his contract. Oh boy.
We’ve come a long way since then.
“I think you liked oysters last time you tried them.” His voice is low, seductive.
“Only time I’ve tried them.” I’m all breathy, my voice exposing me. His lips twitch with a smile.
“Oh, Miss Steele—when will you learn?” he muses.
He takes an oyster from the dish and lifts his other hand from his thigh. I flinch in anticipation,
but he reaches for a slice of lemon.
“Learn what?” I ask. Jeez, my pulse is racing. His long, skilled fingers gently squeeze the lemon
over the shellfish.
“Eat,” he says, holding the shell close to my mouth. I part my lips, and he gently places the shell
on my bottom lip. “Tip your head back slowly,” he murmurs. I do as he asks and the oyster slips down
my throat. He doesn’t touch me, only the shell.
Christian helps himself to one, then feeds me another. We continue this tortuous routine until all
twelve are gone. His skin never connects with mine. It’s driving me crazy.
“Still like oysters?” he asks as I swallow the final one.
I nod, flushed, craving his touch.
“Good.”
I squirm in my seat. Why is this so hot?
He puts his hand casually on his own thigh again, and I melt. Now. Please. Touch me. My inner
goddess is on her knees, naked except for her panties—begging. He runs his hand up and down his
thigh, lifts it, then places it back where it was.
The waiter tops up our champagne glasses and whisks away our plates. Moments later he’s back
with our entrée, sea bass—I don’t believe it —served with asparagus, sautéed potatoes, and a
hollandaise sauce.
“A favorite of yours, Mr. Grey?”
“Most definitely, Miss Steele. Though I believe it was cod at the Heathman.” His hand moves up
and down his thigh. My breathing spikes, but still he doesn’t touch me. It’s so frustrating. I try to
concentrate on our conversation.
“I seem to remember we were in a private dining room then, discussing contracts.”
“Happy days,” he says, smirking. “This time I hope to get to fuck you.” He moves his hand to
pick up his knife.
Gah!
He takes a bite out of his sea bass. He’s doing this on purpose.“Don’t count on it,” I mutter with a pout and he glances at me, amused. “Speaking of contracts,” I
add. “The NDA.”
“Tear it up,” he says simply.
Whoa.
“What? Really?”
“Yes.”
“You’re sure I’m not going to run to the Seattle Times with an exposé?” I tease.
He laughs and it’s a wonderful sound. He looks so young.
“No. I trust you. I’m going to give you the benefit of the doubt.”
Oh. I grin shyly at him. “Ditto,” I breathe.
His eyes light up. “I’m very glad you’re wearing a dress,” he murmurs. And bam—desire courses
through my already overheated blood.
“Why haven’t you touched me, then?” I hiss.
“Missing my touch?” he asks grinning. He’s amused... the bastard.
“Yes,” I seethe.
“Eat,” he orders.
“You’re not going to touch me, are you?”
“No.” He shakes his head.
What? I gasp out loud.
“Just imagine how you’ll feel when we’re home,” he whispers. “I can’t wait to get you home.”
“It will be your fault if I combust here on the seventy-sixth floor,” I mutter through gritted teeth.
“Oh, Anastasia. We’d find a way to put the fire out,” he says, grinning salaciously at me.
Fuming, I dig into my sea bass, and my inner goddess narrows her eyes in quiet, devious
contemplation. We can play this game, too. I learned the basics during our meal at the Heathman. I
take a bite out of my sea bass. It is melt-in-the-mouth delicious. I close my eyes, savoring the taste.
When I open them, I begin my seduction of Christian Grey, very slowly hitching my skirt up, exposing
more of my thighs.
Christian pauses momentarily, a forkful of fish suspended midair.
Touch me.
After a beat, he resumes eating. I take another bite of sea bass, ignoring him. Then, putting down
my knife, I run my fingers up the inside of my lower thigh, lightly tapping my skin with my fingertips.
It’s distracting even to me, especially as I am craving his touch. Christian pauses once more.
“I know what you’re doing.” His voice is low and husky.
“I know that you know, Mr. Grey,” I reply softly. “That’s the point.” I pick up an asparagus stalk,
gaze sideways at him from beneath my lashes, then dip the asparagus into the hollandaise sauce,
swirling the tip round and round.
“You’re not turning the tables on me, Miss Steele.” Smirking he reaches over and takes the spear
from me—amazingly and annoyingly managing not to touch me again. No, this isn’t right—this is not
going according to plan. Gah!
“Open your mouth,” he commands.
I am losing this battle of wills. I glance up at him again, and his eyes blaze bright gray. Parting
my lips a fraction I run my tongue across my lower lip. Christian smiles and his eyes darken further.
“Wider,” he breathes, his lips parting so that I can see his tongue. I groan inwardly and bite my
bottom lip, then do as he asks.
I hear his sharp intake of breath—he’s not so immune. Good, I am finally getting to him. My
inner goddess fist-pumps the air above her chaise longue.
Keeping my eyes locked on his, I take the spear in my mouth, and suck, gently... delicately... onthe end. The hollandaise sauce is mouthwatering. I bite down, moaning quietly in appreciation.
Christian closes his eyes. Yes! When he opens them again, his pupils have dilated. The effect on
me is immediate. I groan and reach out to touch his thigh. To my surprise, he uses his other hand to
grab my wrist.
“Oh, no you don’t, Miss Steele,” he murmurs softly. Raising my hand to his mouth, he gently
brushes my knuckles with his lips, and I squirm. Finally! More, please.
“Don’t touch,” he scolds me quietly, and places my hand back on my knee. It’s so frustrating—
this brief unsatisfactory contact.
“You don’t play fair.” I pout.
“I know.” He picks up his champagne glass to propose a toast, and I mirror his actions.
“Congratulations on your promotion, Miss Steele.” We clink glasses and I blush.
“Yes, kind of unexpected,” I mutter. He frowns as if some unpleasant thought has crossed his
mind.
“Eat,” he orders. “I am not taking you home until you’ve finished your meal, and then we can
really celebrate.” His expression is so heated, so raw, so commanding. I am melting.
“I’m not hungry. Not for food.”
He shakes his head, thoroughly enjoying himself, but narrows his eyes at me just the same.
“Eat, or I’ll put you across my knee, right here, and we’ll entertain the other diners.”
His words make me squirm. He wouldn’t dare! He and his twitchy palm. I press my mouth into a
hard line and stare at him. Picking up an asparagus stalk, he dips the head into the hollandaise.
“Eat this,” he murmurs, his voice low and seductive.
I willingly comply.
“You really don’t eat enough. You’ve lost weight since I’ve known you.” His tone is gentle.
I don’t want to think about my weight; truth is, I like being this slim. I swallow the asparagus.
“I just want to go home and make love,” I mutter disconsolately. Christian grins.
“So do I, and we will. Eat up.”
Reluctantly, I turn back to my food and start to eat. Honestly, I’ve taken my panties off and
everything. I feel like a child who has been denied candy. He is such a tease, a delicious, hot, naughty
tease, and all mine.
He quizzes me about Ethan. As it turns out, Christian does business with Kate and Ethan’s father.
Hmm... it’s small world. I’m relieved he doesn’t mention Dr. Flynn or the house as I’m finding it
difficult to concentrate on our conversation. I want to go home.
The carnal anticipation is unfurling between us. He’s so good at this. Making me wait. Setting the
scene. Between bites, he places his hand on his thigh, so close to mine, but still doesn’t touch me just
to tease me further.
Bastard! Finally I finish my food, and place my knife and fork on the plate.
“Good girl,” he murmurs, and those two words hold so much promise.
I frown at him. “What now?” I ask, desire clawing at my belly.Oh, I want this man.
“Now? We leave. I believe you have certain expectations, Miss Steele. Which I intend to fulfill to
the best of my ability.”
Whoa!
“The best... of your a... bil... ity?” I stutter. Holy shit.
He grins and stands.
“Don’t we have to pay?” I ask, breathless.
He cocks his head to one side. “I am a member here. They’ll bill me. Come, Anastasia, after
you.” He steps aside, and I stand to leave, conscious that I am not wearing my panties.
He gazes at me darkly, like he’s undressing me, and I glory in his carnal appraisal. It just makesme feel so sexy—this beautiful man desires me. Will I always get a kick out of this? Deliberately
stopping in front of him, I smooth my dress over my hips.
Christian whispers in my ear, “I can’t wait to get you home.” But he still doesn’t touch me.
On the way out he murmurs something about the car to the maître d’, but I’m not listening, my
inner goddess is incandescent with anticipation. Jeez, she could light up Seattle.
Waiting by the elevators, we are joined by two middle-aged couples. When the doors open,
Christian takes my elbow and steers me to the back. I glance around, and we’re surrounded by dark
smoked-glass mirrors. As the other couples enter, one man in a rather unflattering brown suit greets
Christian.
“Grey,” he nods politely. Christian nods in return but is silent.
The couples stand in front of us, facing the elevator doors. They are obviously friends—the
women chat loudly, excited and animated after their meal. I think they’re all a little tipsy.
As the doors close, Christian briefly stoops down beside me to tie his shoelace. Odd, his
shoelaces aren’t undone. Discreetly he places his hand on my ankle, startling me, and as he stands his
hand travels swiftly up my leg, skating deliciously over my skin—whoa—right up. I have to stifle my
gasp of surprise as his hand reaches my backside. Christian moves behind me.
Oh my. I gape at the people in front of us, staring at the backs of their heads. They have no idea
what we’re up to. Wrapping his free arm around my waist, Christian pulls me to him, holding me in
place as his fingers explore. Holy fucking shit... in here? The elevator travels smoothly down,
stopping at the fifty-third floor to let some more people on, but I am not paying attention. I am
focused on every little move his fingers make. Circling around... now moving forward, questing, as we
shuffle back.
Again I stifle a groan when his fingers find their goal.
“Always so ready, Miss Steele,” he whispers as he slips a long finger inside me. I squirm and
gasp. How can he do this with all these people here?
“Keep still and quiet,” he warns, murmuring in my ear.
I’m flushed, warm, wanting, trapped in an elevator with seven people, six of them oblivious to
what’s occurring in the corner. His finger slides in and out of me, again and again. My breathing. Jeez,
it’s embarrassing. I want to tell him to stop... and continue... and stop. I sag against him, and he
tightens his arm around me, his erection against my hip.
We halt again at the forty-fourth floor. Oh... how long is this torture going to continue? In... out...
in... out... Subtly I grind myself against his persistent finger. After all this time of not touching me, he
chooses now! Here! And it makes me feel so—wanton.
“Hush,” he breathes, seemingly unaffected as yet two more people come aboard. The elevator is
getting crowded. Christian moves us both farther back so that we’re now pressed into the corner,
holding me in place and torturing me further. He nuzzles my hair. I’m sure we look like a young
couple in love, canoodling in the corner, if anyone could be bothered to turn round and see what we’re
doing... And he eases a second finger inside me.
Fuck! I groan, and I’m thankful that the gaggle of people in front of us are still chatting away,
totally oblivious.
Oh, Christian, what you do to me. I lean my head against his chest, closing my eyes and
surrendering to his unrelenting fingers.
“Don’t come,” he whispers. “I want that later.” He splays his hand out on my belly, pressing
down slightly, as he continues his sweet persecution. The feeling is exquisite.
Finally the elevator reaches the first floor. With a loud ping the doors open, and almost instantly
the passengers start exiting. Christian slowly slips his fingers out of me and kisses the back of myhead. I glance round at him, and he smiles, then nods again at Mr. Badly-fitted-brown-suit who returns
his nod of acknowledgment as he shuffles out of the elevator with his wife. I barely notice,
concentrating instead on staying upright and trying to manage my panting. Jeez, I feel aching and
bereft. Christian releases me, leaving me to stand on my own two feet without leaning on him.
Turning, I gaze up at him. He looks cool and unruffled, his usual composed self. Hmm... This is
so not fair.
“Ready?” he asks. His eyes gleam wickedly as he slips first his index, then his middle finger into
his mouth and sucks on them. “Mighty fine, Miss Steele,” he whispers. I nearly convulse on the spot.
“I can’t believe you just did that,” I murmur, and I’m practically coming apart at the seams.
“You’d be surprised what I can do, Miss Steele,” he says. Reaching out, he tucks a lock of hair
behind my ear, a slight smile betraying his amusement.
“I want to get you home, but maybe we’ll only make it as far as the car.” He grins down at me as
he takes my hand and leads me out of the elevator.
What! Sex in the car? Can’t we just do it here on the cool marble of the lobby floor... please?
“Come.”
“Yes, I want to.”
“Miss Steele!” he admonishes me with mock-amused horror.
“I’ve never had sex in a car,” I mumble. Christian halts and places those same fingers under my
chin, tipping my head back and glaring down at me.
“I’m very pleased to hear that. I have to say I’d be very surprised, not to say mad, if you had.”
I flush, blinking up at him. Of course, I’ve only had sex with him. I frown at him.
“That’s not what I meant.”
“What did you mean?” His tone is unexpectedly harsh.
“Christian, it was just an expression.”
“The famous expression, ‘I’ve never had sex in a car.’ Yes, it just trips off the tongue.”
Jeez... what’s his problem?
“Christian, I wasn’t thinking. For heaven’s sake, you’ve just... um, donethat to me in an elevator
full of people. My wits are scattered.”
He raises his eyebrows. “What did I do to you?” he challenges.
I scowl at him. He wants me to say it.
“You turned me on, big time. Now take me home and fuck me.”
His mouth drops open then he laughs, surprised. Now he looks young and carefree. Oh, to hear
him laugh. I love it because it’s so rare.
“You’re a born romantic, Miss Steele.” He takes my hand, and we head out of the building to
where the valet stands by my Saab.
“So you want sex in a car,” Christian murmurs as he switches on the ignition.
“Quite frankly, I would have been happy with the lobby floor.”
“Trust me, Ana, so would I. But I don’t fancy being arrested at this time of night, and I didn’t
want to fuck you in a restroom. Well, not today.”
What! “You mean there was a possibility?”
“Oh yes.”
“Let’s go back.”
He turns to gaze at me and laughs. His laughter is infectious; soon we’re both laughing—wonderful, cathartic, head-held-back laughter. Reaching over, he places his hand on my knee,
caressing it gently with long skilled fingers. I stop laughing.
“Patience, Anastasia,” he murmurs and pulls into the Seattle traffic.
He parks the Saab in the Escala garage and turns off the engine. Suddenly, in the confines of the car,
the atmosphere between us changes. With wanton anticipation, I glance at him, trying to contain my
palpitating heart. He’s turned toward me, leaning against the door, his elbow propped on the steering
wheel.
He pulls his lower lip with his thumb and index finger. His mouth is so distracting. I want it on
me. He’s watching me intently, his eyes dark gray. My mouth goes dry. He smiles a slow sexy smile.
“We will fuck in the car at a time and place of my choosing. Right now, I want to take you on
every available surface of my apartment.”
It’s like he’s addressing me below the waist... my inner goddess performs four arabesques and a
pas de Basque.
“Yes.” Jeez, I sound so breathy, desperate.
He leans forward a fraction. I close my eyes, waiting for his kiss, thinking—finally. But nothing
happens. After a moment, I open my eyes to find him gazing at me. I can’t figure out what he’s
thinking, but before I can say anything, he distracts me once more.
“If I kiss you now we won’t make it into the apartment. Come.”
Gah! Could this man be any more frustrating? He climbs out of the car.
Once again, we wait for the elevator, my body thrumming with anticipation. Christian holds my hand,
running his thumb rhythmically across my knuckles, each stroke echoing through me. Oh, I want his
hands on all of me. He’s tortured me long enough.
“So, what happened to instant gratification?” I murmur while we wait.
Christian smirks down at me.
“It’s not appropriate in every situation, Anastasia.”
“Since when?”
“Since this evening.”
“Why are you torturing me so?”
“Tit for tat, Miss Steele.”
“How am I torturing you?”
“I think you know.”
I gaze up at him and his expression is difficult to read. He wants my answer... that’s it.
“I’m into delayed gratification, too,” I whisper, smiling shyly.
He tugs my hand unexpectedly, and suddenly I am in his arms. He grabs the hair at the nape of
my neck, pulling gently so my head tips back.
“What can I do to make you say yes?” he asks fervently, throwing me off balance once more. I
blink at him—at his lovely, serious, desperate expression.
“Give me some time? Please,” I murmur. He groans and finally he kisses me, long and hard. Then
we’re in the elevator, and we’re all hands and mouths and tongues and lips and fingers and hair.
Desire, thick and strong, lances through my blood, clouding all my reason. He pushes me against thewall, pinning me with his hips, one hand in my hair, the other at my chin, holding me in place.
“You own me,” he whispers. “My fate is in your hands, Ana.”
His words are intoxicating, and in my overheated state, I want to rip off his clothes. I push off his
jacket, and as the elevator arrives at the apartment, we tumble out into the foyer.
Christian pins me to the wall by the elevator, his jacket falling to the floor, and his hand travels
up my leg, his lips never leaving mine. He hoists up my dress.
“First surface here,” he breathes and abruptly he lifts me. “Wrap your legs around me.”
I do as I’m told, and he turns and lays me down on the foyer table, so he’s standing between my
legs. I’m aware that the usual vase of flowers is missing. Huh? Reaching into his jeans pocket, he
fishes out a foil packet and hands it to me, undoing his fly.
“Do you know how much you turn me on?”
“What?” I pant. “No... I...”
“Well, you do,” he mutters, “all the time.” He grabs the foil packet from my hands. Oh, this is so
quick, but after all his tantalizing teasing, I want him badly—right now. He gazes down at me as he
rolls on the condom, then puts his hands under my thighs, spreading my legs wider.
Positioning himself, he pauses. “Keep your eyes open. I want to see you,” he whispers and
clasping both my hands with his, he sinks slowly into me.
I try, I really do, but the feeling is so exquisite. What I’ve been waiting for after all his teasing.
Oh, the fullness, this feeling... I groan and arch my back off the table.
“Open!” he growls, tightening his hands on mine and thrusting sharply into me so that I cry out.
I blink my eyes open, and he stares down at me wide-eyed. Slowly he withdraws then sinks into
me once more, his mouth slackening and then forming an Ah..., but he says nothing. Seeing his
arousal, his reaction to me—I light up inside, my blood scorching through my veins. His gray eyes
burn into mine. He picks up the rhythm, and I revel in it, glory in it, watching him, watching me—his
passion, hislove—as we come apart, together.
I call out as I explode around him, and Christian follows.
“Yes, Ana!” he cries. He collapses on me, releasing my hands and resting his head on my chest.
My legs are still wrapped around him, and under the patient, maternal eyes of the Madonna paintings,
I cradle his head against me and struggle to catch my breath.
He raises his head to look at me. “I’m not finished with you yet,” he murmurs and leaning up, he
kisses me.
I lie naked in Christian’s bed, sprawled over his chest, panting. Holy cow—does his energy ever
wane? Christian trails his fingers up and down my back.
“Satisfied, Miss Steele?”
I murmur my assent. I have no energy left for talking. Raising my head, I turn unfocused eyes to
him and bask in his warm, fond gaze. Very deliberately, I angle my head down so he knows I am going
to kiss his chest.
He tenses momentarily, and I plant a soft kiss in his chest hair, breathing in his unique Christian
smell, mixed with sweat and sex. It’s heady. He rolls onto his side so I’m lying beside him and gazes
down at me.
“Is sex like this for everyone? I’m surprised anyone ever goes out,” I murmur, feeling suddenly
shy.
He grins. “I can’t speak for everyone, but it’s pretty damned special with you, Anastasia.” Hebends and kisses me.
“That’s because you’re pretty damned special, Mr. Grey,” I agree, smiling up at him and
caressing his face. He blinks down at me at a loss.
“It’s late. Go to sleep,” he says. He kisses me, then lies down and pulls me to him so we’re
spooning in bed.
“You don’t like compliments.”
“Go to sleep, Anastasia.”
Hmm... But he is pretty damned special. Jeez... why doesn’t he realize this?
“I loved the house,” I murmur.
He says nothing for a moment, but I sense his grin.
“I love you. Go to sleep.” He nuzzles my hair, and I drift into sleep, safe in his arms, dreaming of
sunsets and French doors and wide staircases... and a small copper-haired boy running through a
meadow, laughing and giggling as I chase him.
“Gotta go, baby.” Christian kisses me just below my ear.
I open my eyes and it’s morning. I turn to face him, but he’s up and dressed and fresh and
delicious, leaning over me.
“What time is it?” Oh no... I don’t want to be late.
“Don’t panic. I have a breakfast meeting.” He rubs his nose against mine.
“You smell good,” I murmur, stretching out beneath him, my limbs pleasurably tight and creaky
from all our exploits yesterday. I wrap my arms around his neck.
“Don’t go.”
He cocks his head to one side and raises his eyebrow. “Miss Steele—are you trying to keep a man
from an honest day’s work?”
I nod sleepily at him, and he smiles his new shy smile.
“As tempting as you are, I have to go.” He kisses me and stands. He’s wearing a really sharp dark
navy suit, white shirt and navy tie, and he looks every inch the CEO... the hot CEO.
“Laters, baby,” he murmurs and he’s off.
Glancing at the clock I note it’s already seven—I must have slept through the alarm. Well, time
to get up.
In the shower, inspiration hits me. I’ve thought of another birthday present for Christian. It’s so
difficult to buy something for the man who has everything. I’ve already given him my main present,
and I still have the other item I bought at the tourist shop, but this is one present that will really be for
me. I hug myself in anticipation as I switch off the shower. I just have to prepare it.
In the walk-in closet, I put on a dark red fitted dress with a square neckline, cut quite low. Yes,
this will do for work.Now for Christian’s present. I start rummaging through his drawers, looking for his ties. In the
bottom drawer I find those faded, ripped jeans, the ones he wears in the playroom—the ones he looks
so hot in. I stroke them gently, using my whole hand. Oh my, the material is so soft.
Beneath them, I find a large, black, flat cardboard box. It piques my interest immediately. What’s
in here? I stare at it, feeling like I’m trespassing again. Taking it out, I shake it. It’s heavy as if it
holds papers or manuscripts. I cannot resist, I open the lid—and quickly shut it again. Holy fuck—
photographs from the Red Room. The shock makes me sit back on my heels as I try to wipe the image
from my brain. Why did I open the box? Why has he kept them?
I shudder. My subconscious scowls at me—this is before you. Forget them.
She’s right. Standing up I notice his ties are hanging at the end of his clothes rail. I find my
favorite and exit quickly.
I try to tell myself those photos are BA—Before Ana. My subconscious nods with approval, but
it’s with a heavier heart that I head into the main room for breakfast. Mrs. Jones smiles at me warmly
and then frowns.
“Everything all right, Ana?” she asks kindly.
“Yes,” I murmur, distracted. “Do you have a key to the... um, playroom?”
She pauses momentarily, surprised.
“Yes, of course.” She unclips a small bunch of keys from her belt. “What would you like for
breakfast, dear?” she asks as she hands me the keys.
“Just granola. I won’t be long.”
I feel more ambivalent about this gift now but only since the discovery of those photographs.
Nothing’s changed, my subconscious barks at me again, glaring at me over her half-moon winged
glasses. That picture was hot, my inner goddess chips in, and mentally I scowl at her. Yes it was—too
hot for me.
What else does he have hidden away? Quickly I ferret through the museum chest, take what I
need, and lock the playroom door behind me. Wouldn’t do for José to discover this!
I hand the keys back to Mrs. Jones and sit down to devour my breakfast, feeling odd that
Christian is absent. The photograph image dances unwelcome around my mind. I wonder who it was?
Leila perhaps?
On my drive in to work, I debate whether or not to tell Christian I found his photographs. No, screams
my subconscious, her Edvard Munch face on. I decide she’s probably right.
As I sit down at my desk, my Blackberry buzzes.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Surfaces
Date: June 17, 2011 08:59To: Anastasia Steele
I calculate that there are at least 30 surfaces to go. I am looking forward to each and every one of them. Then there’s the floors, the walls—and let’s not forget the balcony.
After that there’s my office...
Miss you. x
Christian Grey
Priapic CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
His e-mail makes me smile, and all my earlier reservations evaporate. It’s me he wants now, and
memories of last night’s sexcapades flood my mind... the elevator, the foyer, the bed. Priapic is right.
I wonder idly what the female equivalent might be?
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Romance?
Date: June 17, 2011 09:03
To: Christian Grey
Mr. GreyYou have a one-track mind.
I missed you at breakfast
But Mrs. Jones was very accommodating.
Ax
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Intrigued
Date: June 17, 2011 09:07
To: Anastasia Steele
What was Mrs. Jones accommodating about?
What are you up to Miss Steele?
Christian Grey
Curious CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
How does he know?
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Tapping Nose
Date: June 17, 2011 09:10
To: Christian GreyWait and see—it’s a surprise.
I need to work... let me be.
Love you.
A x
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Frustrated
Date: June 17, 2011 09:12
To: Anastasia Steele
I hate it when you keep things from me.
Christian Grey
CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
I stare at the small screen of my Blackberry. The vehemence implicit in his e-mail takes me by
surprise. Why does he feel like this? It’s not like I’m hiding erotic photographs of my exes.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Indulging you
Date: June 17, 2011 09:14
To: Christian Grey
It’s for your birthday.
Another surprise.
Don’t be so petulant.
A x
He doesn’t reply immediately, and I’m called into a meeting so I can’t dwell on it for too long.
When I next glance at my Blackberry, to my horror I realize it’s four in the afternoon. Where has
the day gone? Still no message from Christian. I decide to e-mail him again.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Hello
Date: June 17, 2011 16:03
To: Christian Grey
Are you not talking to me?
Don’t forget I am going for a drink with José, and that he’s staying with us tonight.
Please rethink about joining us.
A xHe doesn’t reply, and I feel a frisson of unease. I hope he’s okay. Calling his mobile, I get his
voicemail. The announcement simply says Grey, leave a message in his most clipped tone.
“Hi... um... it’s me. Ana. Are you okay? Call me,” I stutter through my message. I’ve never had to
leave one for him before. I flush as I hang up. Of course he’ll know it’s you, idiot! My subconscious
rolls her eyes at me. I am tempted to ring his PA Andrea but decide that’s a step too far. Reluctantly I
continue my work.
My phone rings unexpectedly and my heart jumps. Christian! But no—it’s Kate, my best friend
finally!
“Ana!” she shouts from wherever she is.
“Kate! Are you back? I’ve missed you.”
“Me, too. I have so much to tell you. We’re at Sea-Tac—me and my man.” She giggles in a most
un-Kate-like way.
“Cool. I have so much to tell you, too.”
“See you back at the apartment?”
“I’m having drinks with José. Join us.”
“José’s in town? Sure! Text me where.”
“Okay.” I beam. My best friend is home. After all this time!
“You good, Ana?”
“Yeah, I’m fine.”
“Still with Christian?”
“Yes.”
“Good. Laters!”
Oh, not her as well. Elliot’s influence knows no bounds.
“Yeah—laters, baby.” I grin and she hangs up.
Wow. Kate is home. How am I going to tell her all that has happened? I should write it down so I
don’t forget anything.
An hour later my office phone rings—Christian? No, it’s Claire.
“You should see the guy asking for you in reception. How come you know all these hot guys,
Ana?”
José must be here. I glance at the clock—it’s five fifty-five, and a small thrill of excitement
pulses through me. I haven’t seen him in ages.
“Ana, wow! You look great. So grown up.” He grins at me.
Just because I’m wearing a smart dress... jeez!
He hugs me hard. “And tall,” he mutters in amazement.
“It’s just the shoes, José. You don’t look so bad yourself.”
He’s wearing jeans, a black T-shirt, and a black and white check flannel shirt.
“I’ll grab my things and we can go.”
“Cool. I’ll wait here.”I pick up two Rolling Rocks from the crowded bar and head over to the table where José is seated.
“You found Christian’s place okay?”
“Yeah. I haven’t been inside. I just delivered the photos to the service elevator. Some guy named
Taylor took them up. Looks like quite a place.”
“It is. You should see inside.”
“Can’t wait. Salud, Ana. Seattle agrees with you.”
I flush as we clink bottles. It’s Christian that agrees with me. “Salud. Tell me about your show
and how it went.”
He beams and launches into the story. He sold all but three of his photos, which has taken care of
his student loans and left him some cash to spare.
“And I’ve been commissioned to do some landscapes for the Portland Tourist Authority. Pretty
cool, huh?” he finishes proudly.
“Oh José—that’s wonderful. Not interfering with your studies though?” I frown at him.
“Nah. Now that you guys have gone and three of the guys I used to hang out with, I have more
time.”
“No hot babe to keep you busy? Last time I saw you, you had half a dozen women hanging on
your every word.” I arch an eyebrow at him.
“Nah, Ana. None of them are woman enough for me.” He’s all bravado.
“Oh sure. José Rodriguez, lady killer.” I giggle.
“Hey—I have my moments, Steele.” He looks vaguely hurt, and I am chastened.
“Sure you do.” I mollify him.
“So, how’s Grey?” he asks, his tone changing, becoming cooler.
“He’s good. We’re good,” I murmur.
“Serious, you say?”
“Yes. Serious.”
“He’s not too old for you?”
“Oh José. You know what my mom says—I was born old.”
José’s mouth twists wryly.
“How is your mom?” And like that, we are out of the danger zone.
“Ana!”
I turn and there’s Kate with Ethan. She looks gorgeous: sun-kissed, bleached strawberry-blond
hair, golden tan, and beaming white smile, and so shapely in her white cami and tight white jeans. All
eyes are on Kate. I leap up from my seat to give her a hug. Oh how I’ve missed this woman!
She pushes me away from her and holds me at arm’s length, examining me closely. I flush under
her intense gaze.
“You’ve lost weight. A lot of weight. And you look different. Grown up. What’s been going on?”
she says, all mother hen, concerned and bossy. “I like your dress. Suits you.”
“A lot’s happened since you went away. I’ll tell you later when we’re on our own.” I am not
ready for the Katherine Kavanagh Inquisition just yet. She regards me suspiciously.
“You’re okay?” she asks gently.
“Yes,” I smile, though I’d be happier knowing where Christian is.
“Cool.”
“Hi, Ethan.” I grin at him, and he gives me a quick hug.
“Hi, Ana,” he whispers in my ear.
José frowns at him.
“How was lunch with Mia?” I ask Ethan.
“Interesting,” he says cryptically.Oh?
“Ethan—you know José?”
“We’ve met once,” José mutters, assessing Ethan as they shake hands.
“Yeah, at Kate’s place in Vancouver,” Ethan says, smiling pleasantly at José. “Right—who’s for
a drink?”
I make my way to the restrooms. While there I text Christian our location; perhaps he’ll join us. There
are no missed calls from him and no e-mails. This is not like him.
“Whassup, Ana?” José asks as I come back to the table.
“I can’t reach Christian. I hope he’s okay.”
“He’ll be fine. Like another beer?”
“Sure.”
Kate leans across. “Ethan says some mad stalker ex-girlfriend was in the apartment with a gun?”
“Well... yeah.” I shrug apologetically. Oh jeez—do we have to do this now?
“Ana—what the hell’s been going on?” Kate stops abruptly and checks her phone.
“Hi, baby,” she says when she answers it. Baby! She frowns and looks at me. “Sure,” she says and
turns to me. “It’s Elliot... he wants to talk to you.”
“Ana.” Elliot’s voice is clipped and quiet, and my scalp prickles ominously.
“What’s wrong?”
“It’s Christian. He’s not back from Portland.”
“What? What do you mean?”
“His helicopter has gone missing.”
“Charlie Tango?” I whisper as all the breath leaves my body. “No!”I stare at the flames, mesmerized. They dance and weave bright blazing orange with tips of cobalt blue
in the fireplace in Christian’s apartment. And despite the heat pumping out of the fire and the blanket
draped around my shoulders, I’m cold. Bone-chillingly cold.
I’m aware of hushed voices, many hushed voices. But they’re in the background, a distant buzz. I
don’t hear the words. All I can hear, all I can focus on, is the soft hiss of the gas from the fire.
My thoughts turn to the house we saw yesterday and the huge fireplaces—real fireplaces for
burning wood. I’d like to make love with Christian in front of a real fire. I’d like to make love with
Christian in front of this fire. Yes, that would be fun. No doubt, he’d think of some way to make it
memorable like all the times we’ve made love. I snort wryly to myself, even the times when we were
just fucking. Yes, those were pretty memorable, too. Where is he?
The flames shimmy and flicker, holding me captive, keeping me numb. I focus solely on their
flaring, scorching beauty. They are bewitching.
Anastasia, you’ve bewitched me.
He said that the first time he slept with me in my bed. Oh no...
I wrap my arms around myself, and the world falls away from me and reality bleeds into my
consciousness. The creeping emptiness inside expands some more. Charlie Tango is missing.
“Ana. Here,” Mrs. Jones gently coaxes me, her voice bringing me back into the room, into the
now, into the anguish. She hands me a cup of tea. I take the cup and saucer gratefully, the rattle
betraying my shaking hands.
“Thank you,” I whisper, my voice hoarse from unshed tears and the large lump in my throat.
Mia sits across from me on the larger-than-large U-shaped couch, holding hands with Grace.
They gaze at me, pain and anxiety etched on their lovely faces. Grace looks older—a mother worried
for her son. I blink dispassionately at them. I can’t offer a reassuring smile, a tear even—there’s
nothing, just blankness and the growing emptiness. I gaze at Elliot, José, and Ethan, who stand around
the breakfast bar, all serious faces, talking quietly. Discussing something in soft subdued voices.
Behind them, Mrs. Jones busies herself in the kitchen.
Kate is in the TV room, monitoring the local news. I hear the faint squawk from the big plasma
TV. I can’t bear to see the news item again—christian grey missing—his beautiful face on TV.
Idly, it occurs to me that I’ve never seen so many people in this room, yet they are still dwarfedby its sheer size. Little islands of lost, anxious people in my Fifty’s home. What would he think about
them being here?
Somewhere, Taylor and Carrick are talking to the authorities who are drip-feeding us
information, but it’s all meaningless. The fact is—he’s missing. He’s been missing for eight hours. No
sign, no word from him. The search has been called off—this much I do know. It’s just too dark. And
we don’t know where he is. He could be hurt, hungry, or worse. No!
I offer another silent prayer to God. Please let Christian be okay. Please let Christian be okay. I
repeat it over and over in my head—my mantra, my lifeline, something concrete to cling to in my
desperation. I refuse to think the worst. No, don’t go there. There is hope.
“You’re my lifeline.”
Christian’s words come back to haunt me. Yes, there is always hope. I must not despair. His
words echo through my mind.
“I’m now a firm advocate of instant gratification. Carpe diem, Ana.”
Why didn’t I seize the day?
“I’m doing this because I’ve finally met someone I want to spend the rest of my life with.”
I close my eyes in silent prayer, rocking gently. Please, let the rest of his life not be this short.
Please, please. We haven’t had enough time... we need more time. We’ve done so much in the last
few weeks, come so far. It can’t end. All our tender moments: the lipstick, when he made love to me
for the first time at the Olympic hotel, on his knees in front of me offering himself to me, finally
touching him.
“I am just the same, Ana. I love you and I need you. Touch me. Please.”
Oh, I love him so. I will be nothing without him, nothing but a shadow—all the light eclipsed.
No, no, no... my poor Christian.
“This is me, Ana. All of me... and I’m all yours. What do I have to do to make you realize that? To
make you see that I want you any way I can get you. That I love you.”
And I you, my Fifty Shades.
I open my eyes and gaze unseeing into the fire once more, memories of our time together flitting
through my mind: his boyish joy when we were sailing and gliding; his suave, sophisticated, hot-as-
hell look at the masked ball; dancing, oh yes, dancing here in the apartment to Sinatra, whirling round
the room; his quiet, anxious hope yesterday at the house—that stunning view.
“I will lay my world at your feet, Anastasia. I want you, body and soul, forever.”
Oh, please, let him be okay. He cannot be gone. He is the center of my universe.
An involuntary sob escapes my throat, and I clutch my hand to my mouth. No. I must be strong.
José is suddenly at my side, or has he been there a while? I have no idea.
“Do you want to call your mom or dad?” he asks gently.
No! I shake my head and clutch José’s hand. I cannot speak, I know I will dissolve if I do, but the
warmth and gentle squeeze of his hand offers me no solace.
Oh, Mom. My lip trembles at the thought of my mother. Should I call her? No. I couldn’t deal
with her reaction. Maybe Ray, he wouldn’t get emotional—he never gets emotional, not even when the
Mariners lose.
Grace rises to join the boys, distracting me. That must be the longest she’s sat still. Mia comes to
sit beside me too and grabs my other hand.
“He will come back,” she says, her voice initially determined but cracking on the last word. Her
eyes are wide and red-rimmed, her face pale and pinched from lack of sleep.
I gaze up at Ethan, who is watching Mia and Elliot, who has his arms around Grace. I glance at
the clock. It’s after eleven, heading toward midnight. Damn time! With each passing hour, the clawingemptiness expands, consuming me, choking me. I know deep down inside I am preparing myself,
preparing myself for the worst. I close my eyes and offer up another silent prayer, clasping both Mia
and José’s hands.
Opening them again, I stare into the flames once more. I can see his shy smile—my favorite of
all his expressions, a glimpse of the real Christian, my real Christian. He is so many people: control
freak, CEO, stalker, sex god, Dom—and at the same time—such a boy with his toys. I smile. His car,
his boat, his plane... Charlie Tango... no... no... my lost boy, truly lost right now. My smile fades and
pain lances through me. I remember him in the shower, wiping away the lipstick marks.
“I’m nothing, Anastasia. I’m a husk of a man. I don’t have a heart.”
The lump in my throat expands. Oh, Christian, you do, you do have a heart, and it’s mine. I want
to cherish it forever. Even though he’s so complex and difficult, I love him. I will always love him.
There will never be anyone else. Ever.
I remember sitting in Starbucks weighing up my Christian pros and cons. All those cons, even
those photographs I found this morning, melt into insignificance now. There’s just him and whether
he’ll come back. Oh please, Lord, bring him back, please let him be okay. I’ll go to church... I’ll do
anything. Oh, if I get him back, I shall seize the day. His voice echoes around my head once
more:“Carpe diem, Ana.”
I gaze deeper into the fire, the flames still licking and curling around each other, blazing brightly.
Then Grace shrieks, and everything goes into slow motion.
“Christian!”
I turn my head in time to see Grace barreling across the great room from where she had been
pacing somewhere behind me, and there in the entrance stands a dismayed Christian. He’s dressed in
just his shirtsleeves and suit pants, and he’s holding his navy jacket, shoes, and socks. He looks tired,
dirty, and utterly beautiful.
Holy fuck... Christian. He’s alive. I gaze numbly at him, trying to work out if I’m hallucinating or
if he’s really here.
His expression is one of utter bewilderment. He deposits his jacket and shoes on the floor in time
to catch Grace, who throws her arms around his neck and kisses him hard on the cheek.
“Mom?”
Christian gazes down at her, completely at a loss.
“I thought I’d never see you again,” Grace whispers, voicing our collective fear.
“Mom, I’m here.” I hear the consternation in his voice.
“I died a thousand deaths today,” she whispers, her voice barely audible, echoing my thoughts.
She gasps and sobs, no longer able to hold back her tears. Christian frowns, horrified or mortified—I
don’t know which—then after a beat, envelops her in a huge hug, holding her close.
“Oh, Christian,” she chokes, wrapping her arms around him, weeping into his neck—all self-
restraint forgotten—and Christian doesn’t balk. He just holds her, rocking to and fro, comforting her.
Scalding tears pool in my eyes. Carrick hollers from the hallway.
“He’s alive! Shit—you’re here!” He appears from Taylor’s office, clutching his cell phone, and
embraces both of them, his eyes closed in sweet relief.
“Dad?”
Mia squeals something unintelligible from beside me, then she’s up, running, joining her parents,
hugging all of them, too.
Finally the tears start to cascade down my cheeks. He’s here, he’s fine. But I cannot move.
Carrick is the first to pull away, wiping his eyes and clapping Christian on the shoulder. Mia
releases them and Grace steps back.“Sorry,” she mumbles.
“Hey, Mom—it’s okay,” Christian says, consternation still evident on his face.
“Where were you? What happened?” Grace cries and puts her head in her hands.
“Mom,” Christian mutters. He draws her into his arms again and kisses the top of her head. “I’m
here. I’m good. It’s just taken me a hell of a long time to get back from Portland. What’s with the
welcoming committee?” He looks up and scans the room until his eyes lock with mine.
He blinks and glances briefly at José, who lets go of my hand. Christian’s mouth tightens. I drink
in the sight of him and relief courses through me, leaving me spent, exhausted, and completely elated.
Yet my tears don’t stop. Christian turns his attention back to his mother.
“Mom, I’m good. What’s wrong?” Christian says reassuringly. She places her hands on either
side of his face.
“Christian, you’ve been missing. Your flight plan—you never made it to Seattle. Why didn’t you
contact us?”
Christian’s eyebrows shoot up in surprise. “I didn’t think it would take this long.”
“Why didn’t you call?”
“No power in my cell.”
“You didn’t stop... call collect?”
“Mom—it’s a long story.”
“Oh, Christian! Don’t you ever do that to me again! Do you understand?” she half shouts at him.
“Yes, Mom.” He wipes her tears away with his thumb and hugs her once more. When she
composes herself, he releases her to hug Mia, who slaps him hard on the chest.
“You had us so worried!” she blurts out, and she, too, is in tears.
“I’m here now, for heaven’s sake,” Christian mutters.
As Elliot comes forward, Christian relinquishes Mia to Carrick, who already has one arm around
his wife. He curls the other around his daughter. Elliot hugs Christian briefly, much to Christian’s
surprise, and slaps him hard on the back.
“Great to see you.” Elliot says loudly, if a little gruffly, trying to hide his emotion.
As the tears stream down my face, I can see it all. The great room is bathed in it—unconditional
love. He has it in spades; he’s just never accepted it before, and even now he’s at a total loss.
Look, Christian, all these people love you! Perhaps now you’ll start believing it.
Kate is standing behind me—she must have left the TV room—and she gently strokes my hair.
“He’s really here, Ana,” she murmurs comfortingly.
“I’m going to say hi to my girl now,” Christian tells his parents. Both nod, smile, and step aside.
He moves toward me, gray eyes bright though weary and still bemused. From somewhere deep
inside, I find the strength to stagger to my feet and bolt into his open arms.
“Christian!” I sob.
“Hush,” he says and holds me, burying his face in my hair and inhaling deeply. I raise my tear-
stained face to his, and he kisses me far too briefly.
“Hi,” he murmurs.
“Hi,” I whisper back, the lump in the back of my throat burning.
“Miss me?”
“A bit.”
He grins. “I can tell.” And with a gentle touch of his hand, he wipes away the tears that refuse to
stop running down my cheeks.
“I thought... I thought—” I choke.
“I can see. Hush... I’m here. I’m sorry. Later,” he murmurs and kisses me chastely again.
“Are you okay?” I ask, releasing him and touching his chest, his arms, his waist—oh, the feel ofthis warm, vital, sensual man beneath my fingers—reassures me that he’s here, standing in front of
me. He’s back. He doesn’t so much as flinch. He just regards me intently.
“I’m okay. I’m not going anywhere.”
“Oh, thank God,” I clasp him round his waist again, and he hugs me once more. “Are you hungry?
Do you need something to drink?”
“Yes.”
I step back to fetch him something, but he doesn’t let me go. He tucks me under his arm and
extends a hand to José.
“Mr. Grey,” says José evenly.
Christian snorts. “Christian, please,” he says.
“Christian, welcome back. Glad you’re okay... and um—thanks for letting me stay.”
“No problem.” Christian narrows his eyes, but he’s distracted by Mrs. Jones, who is suddenly at
his side. It only occurs to me now that she’s not her usual smart self. I hadn’t noticed it before. Her
hair is loose, and she’s in soft gray leggings and a large gray sweatshirt that dwarfs herwith WSU
Cougars emblazoned on the front. She looks years younger.
“Can I get you something, Mr. Grey?” She wipes her eyes with a tissue.
Christian smiles fondly at her. “A beer, please, Gail—Budvar—and a bite to eat.”
“I’ll fetch it,” I murmur, wanting to do something for my man.
“No. Don’t go,” he says softly, tightening his arm around me.
The rest of his family close in, and Ethan and Kate join us. He shakes Ethan’s hand and gives
Kate a quick peck on the cheek. Mrs. Jones returns with a bottle of beer and a glass. He takes the
bottle but shakes his head at the glass. She smiles and returns to the kitchen.
“Surprised you don’t want something stronger,” mutters Elliot. “So what the fuck happened to
you? First I knew was when Dad called me to say the chopper was missing.”
“Elliot!” Grace scolds.
“Helicopter,” Christian growls, correcting Elliot, who grins, and I suspect this is a family joke.
“Let’s sit and I’ll tell you.” Christian pulls me over to the couch, and everyone sits down, all eyes
on Christian. He takes a long draft of his beer. He spies Taylor hovering at the entrance and nods.
Taylor nods back.
“Your daughter?”
“She’s fine now. False alarm, sir.”
“Good.” Christian smiles.
Daughter? What happened to Taylor’s daughter?
“Glad you’re back, sir. Will that be all?”
“We have a helicopter to collect.”
Taylor nods. “Now? Or will the morning do?”
“Morning, I think, Taylor.”
“Very good, Mr. Grey. Anything else, sir?”
Christian shakes his head and raises his bottle to him. Taylor gives him a rare smile—rarer than
Christian’s, I think—and heads out presumably to his office or up to his room.
“Christian, what happened?” Carrick demands.
Christian launches into his story. He was flying with Ros, his number two in Charlie Tango to
deal with a funding issue at WSU in Vancouver. I can barely keep up I’m so dazed. I just hold
Christian’s hand and stare at his manicured fingernails, his long fingers, the creases on his knuckles,
his wristwatch—an Omega with three small dials. I gaze up at his beautiful profile as he continues his
tale.
“Ros had never seen Mount St. Helens, so on the way back as a celebration, we took a quickdetour. I heard the TFR was lifted a while back and I wanted to take a look. Well, it’s fortunate that we
did. We were flying low, about two hundred feet AGL, when the instrument panel lit up. We had a fire
in the tail—I had no choice but to cut all the electronics and land.” He shakes his head. “I set her down
by Silver Lake, got Ros out, and managed to put the fire out.”
“A fire? Both engines?” Carrick is horrified.
“Yep.”
“Shit! But I thought.”
“I know,” Christian interrupts him. “It was sheer luck I was flying so low,” he murmurs. I
shudder. He releases my hand and puts his arm around me.
“Cold?” he asks me. I shake my head.
“How did you put out the fire?” asks Kate, her Carla Bernstein instincts kicking in. Jeez, she
sounds terse sometimes.
“Extinguisher. We have to carry them—by law.” Christian answers levelly.
His words from long ago circle my mind. “I thank divine providence every day that it was you
that came to interview me and not Katherine Kavanagh.”
“Why didn’t you call or use the radio?” Grace asks.
Christian shakes his head. “With the electronics out, we had no radio. And I wasn’t going to risk
turning them on because of the fire. GPS was still working on the Blackberry, so I was able to navigate
to the nearest road. Took us four hours to walk there. Ros was in heels.” Christian’s mouth presses
into a disapproving flat line.
“We had no cell reception. There’s no coverage at Gifford. Ros’s battery died first. Mine dried up
on the way.”
Holy hell. I tense and Christian pulls me into his lap.
“So how did you get back to Seattle?” Grace asks, blinking slightly at the sight of the two of us,
no doubt. I flush.
“We hitched and pooled our resources. Between us, Ros and I had six hundred dollars, and we
thought we’d have to bribe someone to drive us back, but a truck driver stopped and agreed to bring us
home. He refused the money and shared his lunch with us.” Christian shakes his head in dismay at the
memory. “Took forever. He didn’t have a cell—weird, but true. I didn’t realize.” He stops, gazing at
his family.
“That we’d worry?” Grace scoffs. “Oh, Christian!” she scolds him. “We’ve been going out of our
minds!”
“You’ve made the news, bro.”
Christian rolls his eyes. “Yeah. I figured that much when I arrived to this reception and the
handful of photographers outside. I’m sorry, Mom—I should have asked the driver to stop so I could
phone. But I was anxious to be back.” He glances at José.
Oh, that’s why, because José is staying here. I frown at the thought. Jeez—all that worry.
Grace shakes her head. “I’m just glad you’re back in one piece, darling.”
I start to relax, resting my head against his chest. He smells outdoorsy, slightly sweaty, of body
wash, and Christian, the most welcome scent in the world. Tears start to trickle down my face again,
tears of gratitude.
“Both engines?” Carrick says again, frowning in disbelief.
“Go figure.” Christian shrugs and runs his hand down my back.
“Hey,” he whispers. He puts his fingers under my chin and tilts my head back. “Stop with the
crying.”
I wipe my nose with the back of my hand in a most unladylike way. “Stop with the disappearing.”I sniff and his lips quirk up.
“Electrical failure... that’s odd, surely?” Carrick says again.
“Yes, crossed my mind, too, Dad. But right now, I’d just like to go to bed and think about all that
shit tomorrow.”
“So the media know that the Christian Grey has been found safe and well?” Kate says.
“Yes. Andrea and my PR people will deal with the media. Ros called her after we dropped her
home.”
“Yes, Andrea called me to let me know you were still alive.” Carrick grins.
“I must give that woman a raise. Sure is late,” says Christian.
“I think that’s a hint, ladies and gentlemen, that my dear bro needs his beauty sleep,” Elliot scoffs
suggestively. Christian grimaces at him.
“Cary, my son is safe. You can take me home now.”
Cary? Grace looks adoringly at her husband.
“Yes. I think we could use the sleep,” Carrick replies smiling down at her.
“Stay,” Christian offers.
“No, sweetheart, I want to get home. Now that I know you’re safe.”
Christian reluctantly eases me onto the couch and stands. Grace hugs him once more, presses her
head against his chest and closes her eyes, content. He wraps his arms around her.
“I was so worried, darling,” she whispers.
“I’m okay, Mom.”
She leans back and studies him intently while he holds her. “Yes. I think you are,” she says
slowly, glances at me, and smiles. I flush.
We follow Carrick and Grace as they make their way to the foyer. Behind me, I’m aware that Mia
and Ethan are having a heated whispered conversation, but I can’t hear it.
Mia is smiling shyly at Ethan, and he’s gaping at her and shaking his head. Suddenly, she folds
her arms and turns on her heel. He rubs his forehead with one hand, obviously frustrated.
“Mom, Dad—wait for me,” Mia calls sullenly. Perhaps she’s as mercurial as her brother.
Kate hugs me hard. “I can tell some serious shit’s been going down while I’ve been blissfully
ignorant in Barbados. It’s kind of obvious you two are nuts about each other. I’m glad he’s safe. Not
just for him, Ana—for you, too.”
“Thank you, Kate,” I whisper.
“Yeah. Who knew we’d find love at the same time?” She grins. Wow. She’s admitted it.
“With brothers!” I giggle.
“We could end up sisters-in-law,” she quips.
I tense, then mentally kick myself as Kate stands back to gaze at me with herwhat-aren’t-you-
telling-me-Steele look. I flush. Damn, should I tell her he’s asked me?
“Come on, baby,” Elliot summons her from the elevator.
“Let’s talk tomorrow, Ana. You must be exhausted.”
I am reprieved. “Sure. You, too, Kate—you’ve traveled long distance today.”
We hug once more, then she and Elliot follow the Greys into the elevator. Ethan shakes
Christian’s hand and gives me a quick hug. He looks distracted, but he follows them into the elevator
and the doors close.
José is hovering in the hallway as we come out of the foyer.
“Look. I’ll turn in... leave you guys,” he says.
I blush. Jeez, why is this awkward?
“Do you know where to go?” Christian asks.
José nods.“Yeah, the housekeeper—”
“Mrs. Jones,” I prompt.
“Yeah, Mrs. Jones, she showed me earlier. Quite a place you have here, Christian.”
“Thank you,” Christian says politely as he comes to stand beside me, placing his arm around my
shoulders. Leaning over, he kisses my hair.
“I’m going to eat whatever Mrs. Jones has put out for me. Goodnight, José.” Christian wanders
back into the great room, leaving José and me at the entrance.
Wow! Left alone with José.
“Well, goodnight.” José looks uncomfortable all of a sudden.
“Goodnight, José, and thank you for staying.”
“Sure, Ana. Any time your rich, hotshot boyfriend goes missing—I’ll be there.”
“José!” I admonish him.
“Only kidding. Don’t get mad. I’ll be leaving early in the morning—I’ll see you sometime, yeah?
I’ve missed you.”
“Sure, José. Soon I hope. Sorry tonight was so... shitty.” I smirk apologetically.
“Yeah.” He grins. “Shitty.” He hugs me. “Seriously, Ana, I’m glad you’re happy, but I’m here if
you need me.”
I gaze up at him. “Thank you.”
He flashes me a sad, bittersweet smile, and then he goes upstairs.
I turn back to the great room. Christian stands beside the couch, watching me with an unreadable
expression on his face. We’re finally alone and we gaze at each other.
“He’s still got it bad, you know,” he murmurs.
“And how would you know that, Mr. Grey?”
“I recognize the symptoms, Miss Steele. I believe I have the same affliction.”
“I thought I’d never see you again,” I whisper. There—the words are out. All my worst fears
packaged neatly in one short sentence now exorcised.
“It wasn’t as bad as it sounds.”
I pick up his suit jacket and shoes from where they lie on the floor and move toward him.
“I’ll take that,” he whispers, reaching for his jacket.
Christian gazes down at me as if I’m his reason for living and mirrors my look, I’m sure. He is
here, really here. He pulls me into his arms and wraps himself around me.
“Christian,” I gasp, and my tears start anew.
“Hush,” he soothes, kissing my hair. “You know... in the few seconds of sheer terror before I
landed, all my thoughts were of you. You’re my talisman, Ana.”
“I thought I’d lost you,” I breathe. We stand, holding each other, reconnecting and reassuring
each other. As I tighten my arms around him, I realize I’m still holding his shoes. I drop them noisily
to the floor.
“Come and shower with me,” he murmurs.
“Okay.” I glance up at him. I don’t want to let go. Reaching down he tilts my chin up with his
fingers.
“You know even tear-stained, you are beautiful, Ana Steele.” He leans down and kisses me
gently. “And your lips are so soft.” He kisses me again, deepening it.
Oh my... and to think, I could have lost... no... I stop thinking and surrender myself.
“I need to put my jacket down,” he murmurs.
“Drop it,” I murmur against his lips.
“I can’t.”
I lean back to gaze up at him, puzzled.He smirks at me. “This is why.” From the inside breast pocket he pulls out the small box I gave
him, containing my present. He slings the jacket over the back of the couch and places the box on top.
Seize the day, Ana, my subconscious prods me. Well, it’s after midnight, so technically it’s his
birthday.
“Open it,” I whisper, and my heart starts pounding.
“I was hoping you’d say that,” he murmurs. “This has been driving me crazy.”
I grin impishly at him. Jeez, I feel giddy. He gives me his shy smile, and I melt despite my
thumping heart, delighting in his amused yet intrigued expression. With deft long fingers, he unwraps
and opens the box. His brow creases as he fishes out a small, rectangular, plastic keychain bearing a
picture made up of tiny pixels that flash on and off like an LED screen. It depicts the Seattle skyline,
focusing on the Space Needle, with the wordSEATTLE written boldly across the landscape, flashing
on and off.
He stares at it for a moment and then gazes at me bemused, a frown marring his lovely brow.
“Turn it over,” I whisper, holding my breath.
He does, and his eyes shoot to mine, wide and gray, alive with wonder and joy. His lips part in
disbelief.
The wordyes flashes on and off on the key ring.
“Happy birthday,” I whisper.“You’ll marry me?” he whispers, incredulous.
I nod nervously, flushing and anxious and not quite believing his reaction—this man whom I
thought I’d lost. How could he not understand how much I love him?
“Say it,” he orders softly, his gaze intense and hot.
“Yes, I’ll marry you.”
He inhales sharply and moves suddenly, grabbing me and swinging me round in a most un-
Fiftylike manner. He’s laughing, young and carefree, radiating joyful elation. I grab his arms to hold
on, feeling his muscles ripple beneath my fingers, and his infectious laughter sweeps me up—dizzy,
addled, a girl totally and utterly smitten with her beautiful man. He puts me down and kisses me.
Hard. His hands are on either side of my face, his tongue insistent, persuasive... arousing.
“Oh, Ana,” he breathes against my lips, and it’s an exultation that leaves me reeling. He loves
me, of that I have no doubt, and I savor the taste of this delicious man, this man I thought I might
never see again. His joy is evident—his eyes shining, his youthful smile—and his relief is almost
palpable.
“I thought I’d lost you,” I murmur, still dazzled and breathless from his kiss.
“Baby, it will take more than a malfunctioning 135 to keep me away from you.”
“135?”
“Charlie Tango. She’s a Eurocopter 135, the safest in its class.” Some unnamed but dark emotion
crosses his face briefly, distracting me. What isn’t he saying? Before I can ask him, he stills and looks
down at me, frowning, and for a moment I think he’s going to tell me. I blink up into his speculative
gray eyes.
“Wait a minute. You gave this to me before we saw Flynn,” he says, holding up the keychain. He
looks almost horrified.
Oh dear, where’s he going with this? I nod, keeping a straight face.
His mouth drops open.
I shrug apologetically. “I wanted you to know that whatever Flynn said, it wouldn’t make a
difference to me.”
Christian blinks at me in disbelief. “So all yesterday evening, when I was begging you for an
answer, I had it already?” He’s dismayed. I nod again, trying desperately to gauge his reaction. Hegazes at me in stupefied wonder, but then narrows his eyes and his mouth twists with amused irony.
“All that worry,” he whispers ominously. I grin at him and shrug once more. “Oh, don’t try and
get cute with me, Miss Steele. Right now, I want...” He runs his hand through his hair, then shakes his
head and changes tack.
“I can’t believe you left me hanging.” His whisper is laced with disbelief. His expression alters
subtly, his eyes gleaming wickedly, his mouth twitching into a carnal smile.
Holy hell. A thrill runs through me. What’s he thinking?
“I believe some retribution is in order, Miss Steele,” he says softly.
Retribution? Oh shit! I know he’s playing—but I take a cautious step back from him anyway.
He grins. “Is that the game?” he whispers. “Because I will catch you.” And his eyes burn with a
bright playful intensity. “And you’re biting your lip,” he says threateningly.
All of my insides tighten at once. Oh my. My future husband wants to play. I take another step
back, then turn to run—but in vain. Christian grabs me, and in one easy swoop while I squeal with
delight, surprise, and shock. He hoists me over his shoulder and heads down the hall.
“Christian!” I hiss, mindful that José is upstairs, though whether he could hear us is doubtful. I
steady myself by clasping his lower back, then on a brave impulse, I swat his behind. He swats me
right back.
“Ow!” I yelp.
“Shower time,” he declares triumphantly.
“Put me down!” I try and fail to sound disapproving. My struggle is futile—his arm is firmly
clamped over my thighs—and for some reason I cannot stop giggling.
“Fond of these shoes?” he asks amused as he opens the door to his bathroom.
“I prefer them to be touching the floor.” I attempt to snarl at him, but it’s not very effective as I
can’t keep the laughter out of my voice.
“Your wish is my command, Miss Steele.” Without putting me down, he slips off both of my
shoes and lets them clatter to the tile floor. Pausing by the vanity, he empties his pockets—dead
Blackberry, keys, wallet, the keychain. I can only imagine what I look like in the mirror from this
angle. When he’s finished, he marches directly into his overlarge shower.
“Christian!” I scold loudly—his intent is now clear.
He switches the water on at max. Jeez! Arctic water spurts over my backside, and I squeal—then
stop, mindful once more that José is above us. It’s cold and I’m fully clothed. The chilling water soaks
into my dress, my panties, and my bra. I’m drenched and I cannot stop giggling.
“No!” I squeal. “Put me down!” I swat him again, harder this time, and Christian releases me,
letting me slide down his now soaked body. His white shirt is stuck to his chest and his suit pants are
sodden. I am soaked, too, flushed, giddy and breathless, and he’s grinning down at me, looking so... so
unbelievably hot.
He sobers, his eyes shining, and cups my face again, drawing my lips to his. His kiss is gentle,
cherishing, and totally distracting. I no longer care that I am fully clothed and soaking wet in
Christian’s shower. It’s just the two of us beneath the cascading water. He’s back, he’s safe, he’s
mine.
My hands move involuntarily to his shirt as it clings to every line and sinew of his chest,
revealing the hair scrunched beneath the white wetness. I yank the shirt hem out of his pants, and he
groans against my mouth, but his lips do not leave mine. As I unbutton his shirt, he reaches for my
zipper, slowly sliding the clasp down my dress. His lips become more insistent, more provocative, his
tongue invading my mouth—and my body explodes with desire. I tug his shirt hard, ripping it open.
The buttons fly everywhere, ricocheting off the tiles and disappearing onto the shower floor. As I stripthe wet material off his shoulders and down his arms, I press him into the wall, hampering his
attempts to undress me. “Cufflinks,” he murmurs, holding up his wrists where his shirt hangs sodden
and limp.
With scrambling fingers, I release first one and then the other cuff, letting his gold cufflinks fall
carelessly to the tiled floor and his shirt follows. His eyes search mine through the cascading water,
his gaze burning, carnal, heated like the water. I reach for the waistband of his pants, but he shakes his
head and grabs my shoulders, spinning me round so I am facing away from him. He finishes the long
journey south with my zipper, smoothes my wet hair away from my neck, and runs his tongue up my
neck to my hairline and back again, kissing and sucking as he goes.
I moan and slowly he peels my dress off my shoulders and down past my breasts, kissing my
neck beneath my ear. He unclasps my bra and pushes it off my shoulders, freeing my breasts. His
hands reach around and cup each one as he murmurs his appreciation in my ear.
“So beautiful,” he whispers.
My arms are trapped by my bra and dress, which hang unfastened below my breasts, my arms
still in the sleeves but my hands are free. I roll my head, giving Christian better access to my neck and
push my breasts into his magical hands. I reach round behind me and welcome his sharp intake of
breath as my inquisitive fingers make contact with his erection. He pushes his groin into my
welcoming hands. Dammit, why didn’t he let me take his pants off?
He tugs on my nipples, and as they harden and stretch under his expert touch, all thoughts of his
pants disappear and pleasure spikes sharp and libidinous in my belly. I lean my head back against him
and groan.
“Yes,” he breathes and turns me once more, capturing my mouth with his. He peels my bra, dress
and panties down so they join his shirt in a soggy heap on the shower floor.
I grab the body wash beside us. Christian stills as he realizes what I am about to do. Staring him
straight in the eye, I squirt some of the sweet-smelling gel into my palm and hold my hand up in front
of his chest, waiting for an answer to my unspoken question. His eyes widen, then he gives me an
almost imperceptible nod.
Gently I place my hand on his sternum and start to rub the soap into his skin. His chest rises as he
inhales sharply, but he stands stock-still. After a beat, his hands clasp my hips, but he doesn’t push me
away. He watches me warily, his look intense more than scared, but his lips are parted as his breathing
increases.
“Is this okay?” I whisper.
“Yes.” His short, breathy reply is almost a gasp. I am reminded of the many showers we’ve had
together, but the one at the Olympic is a bittersweet memory. Well, now I can touch him. I wash him
using gentle circles, cleaning my man, moving to his underarms, over his ribs, down his flat firm
belly, toward his happy trail, and the waistband of his pants.
“My turn,” he whispers and reaches for the shampoo, shifting us out of range of the stream of
water and squirting some on to the top of my head.
I think this is my cue to stop washing him, so I hook my fingers into his waistband. He works the
shampoo into my hair, his firm, long fingers massaging my scalp. Groaning in appreciation, I close
my eyes and give myself over to the heavenly sensation. After all the stress of the evening, this is just
what I need.
He chuckles and I open one eye to find him smiling down at me. “You like?”
“Hmm...”
He grins. “Me, too,” he says and leans over to kiss my forehead, his fingers continuing their
sweet, firm kneading of my scalp.
“Turn round,” he says authoritatively. I do as I’m told, and his fingers slowly work over my head,cleansing, relaxing, loving me as they go. Oh, this is bliss. He reaches for more shampoo and gently
washes the long tresses down my back. When he’s finished, he pulls me back under the shower.
“Lean your head back,” he orders quietly.
I willingly comply, and he carefully rinses out the suds. When he’s done, I face him once more
and make a beeline for his pants.
“I want to wash all of you,”
I whisper. He smiles that lopsided smile and lifts his hands in a gesture that says “I’m all yours,
baby.” I grin; it feels like Christmas. I make short work of his zipper, and soon his pants and boxers
join the rest of our clothing. I stand and reach for the body wash and the freshwater sponge.
“Looks like you’re pleased to see me,” I murmur dryly.
“I’m always pleased to see you, Miss Steele.” He smirks at me.
I soap the sponge, then retrace my journey over his chest. He’s more relaxed—maybe because
I’m not actually touching him. I head south with the sponge, across his belly, along the happy trail,
through his pubic hair, and over and up his erection.
I peek up at him, and he regards me with hooded eyes and sensual longing. Hmm... I like this
look. I drop the sponge and use my hands, grasping him firmly. He closes his eyes, tips his head back,
and groans, thrusting his hips into my hands.
Oh yes! It’s so arousing. My inner goddess has resurfaced after her evening of rocking and
weeping in the corner, and she’s wearing harlot-red lipstick.
His burning eyes suddenly lock with mine. He’s remembered something.
“It’s Saturday,” he exclaims, eyes alight with salacious wonder, and he grasps my waist, pulling
me to him and kissing me savagely.
Whoa—change of pace!
His hands sweep down my slick, wet body, round to my sex, his fingers exploring, teasing, and
his mouth is relentless, leaving me breathless. His other hand is in my wet hair, holding me in place
while I bear the full force of his passion unleashed. His fingers move inside me.
“Ahh,” I moan into his mouth.
“Yes,” he hisses and lifts me, his hands beneath my backside. “Wrap your legs around me, baby.”
My legs fold around him, and I cling like a limpet to his neck. He braces me against the wall of the
shower and pauses, gazing down at me.
“Eyes open,” he murmurs. “I want to see you.”
I blink up at him, my heart hammering, my blood pulsing hot and heavy through my body, desire,
real and rampant surging through me. Then he eases into me oh-so-slowly, filling me, claiming me,
skin against skin. I push down against him and groan loudly. Once fully inside me, he pauses once
more, his face strained, intense.
“You are mine, Anastasia,” he whispers.
“Always.”
He smiles victoriously and shifts, making me gasp.
“And now we can let everyone know, because you said yes.” His voice is reverential, and he leans
down, capturing my mouth with his, and starts to move... slow and sweet. I close my eyes and tilt my
head back as my body bows, my will submitting to his, slave to his intoxicating slow rhythm.
His teeth graze my jaw, my chin, and down my neck as he picks up the pace, pushing me onward,
upward—away from this earthly plane, the teeming shower, the evening’s chilling fright. It’s just me
and my man moving in unison, moving as one—each completely absorbed in the other—our gasps and
grunts mingling. I revel in the exquisite feeling of his possession as my body blooms and flowers
around him.I could have lost him... and I love him... I love him so much, and I’m suddenly overcome by the
enormity of my love and the depth of my commitment to him. I will spend the rest of my life loving
this man, and with that awe-inspiring thought, I detonate around him—a healing, cathartic orgasm,
crying out his name as tears flow down my cheeks.
He reaches his climax and pours himself into me. With his face buried in my neck, he sinks to the
floor, holding me tightly, kissing my face, and kissing away my tears as the warm water spills down
around us, washing us clean.
“My fingers are pruny,” I murmur, postcoital and sated as I lean against his chest. He raises my
fingers to his lips and kisses each in turn.
“We should really get out of this shower.”
“I’m comfortable here.” I’m sitting between his legs and he’s holding me close. I don’t want to
move.
Christian murmurs his assent. But suddenly I’m bone tired, world-weary. So much has happened
this last week—enough for a lifetime of drama—and now I’m gettingmarried. A disbelieving giggle
escapes my lips.
“Something amusing you, Miss Steele?” he asks fondly.
“It’s been a busy week.”
He grins. “That it has.”
“I thank God you’re back in one piece, Mr. Grey,” I whisper, sobering at the thought of what
might have been. He tenses and I immediately regret reminding him.
“I was scared,” he confesses much to my surprise.
“Earlier?”
He nods, his expression serious.
Holy shit. “So you made light of it to reassure your family?”
“Yes. I was too low to land well. But somehow I did.”
Crap. My eyes sweep up to his, and he looks grave as the water cascades over us. “How close a
call was it?” He gazes down at me.
“Close,” he pauses. “For a few awful seconds, I thought I’d never see you again.”
I hug him tightly. “I can’t imagine my life without you, Christian. I love you so much it frightens
me.”
“Me, too,” he breathes. “My life would be empty without you. I love you so much.” His arms
tighten around me and he nuzzles my hair. “I won’t ever let you go.”
“I don’t want to go, ever.” I kiss his neck, and he leans down and kisses me gently.
After a moment, he shifts. “Come—let’s get you dry and into bed. I’m exhausted and you look
beat.”
I lean back and arch an eyebrow at his choice of words. He cocks his head to one side and smirks
at me.
“You have something to say, Miss Steele?”
I shake my head and clamber unsteadily to my feet.
I am sitting up in bed. Christian insisted on drying my hair—he’s quite skilled at it. How thathappened is an unpleasant thought, so I dismiss it immediately. It’s after two in the morning, and I am
ready to sleep. Christian gazes down at me and reexamines the keychain before climbing into bed. He
shakes his head, incredulous once more.
“This is so neat. The best birthday present I’ve ever had.” He glances at me, his eyes soft and
warm. “Better than my signed Guiseppe DeNatale poster.”
“I would have told you earlier, but as it was your birthday... What do you give the man who has
everything? I thought I’d give you... me.”
He puts the keychain down on the bedside table and snuggles in beside me, pulling me into his
arms against his chest so that we’re spooning.
“It’s perfect. Like you.”
I smirk, though he can’t see my expression. “I am far from perfect, Christian.”
“Are you smirking at me, Miss Steele?”
How does he know? “Maybe.” I giggle. “Can I ask you something?
“Of course,” he nuzzles my neck.
“You didn’t call on your trip back from Portland. Was that really because of José? You were
worried about me being here alone with him?”
Christian says nothing. I turn to face him, and his eyes are wide as I reproach him.
“Do you know how ridiculous that is? How much stress you put your family and me through? We
all love you very much.”
He blinks a couple of times and then gives me his shy smile. “I had no idea you’d all be so
worried.”
I purse my lips. “When are you going to get it through your thick skull that you areloved?”
“Thick skull?” His eyebrows widen in surprise.
I nod. “Yes. Thick skull.”
“I don’t think the bone density of my head is significantly higher than anywhere else in my
body.”
“I’m serious! Stop trying to make me laugh. I am still a little mad at you, though that’s partially
eclipsed by the fact that you’re home safe and sound when I thought...” My voice fades as I recall
those anxious few hours. “Well, you know what I thought.”
His eyes soften and he reaches up to caress my face. “I’m sorry. Okay.”
“Your poor mom, too. It was very moving, seeing you with her,” I whisper.
He smiles shyly. “I’ve never seen her that way.” He blinks at the memory. “Yes, that was really
something. She’s normally so self-possessed. It was quite a shock.”
“See? Everyone loves you.” I smile. “Perhaps now you’ll start believing it.” I lean down and kiss
him gently.
“Happy birthday, Christian. I’m glad you’re here to share your day with me. And you haven’t
seen what I’ve got for you tomorrow um... today.” I smirk.
“There’s more?” he says, astounded, and his face erupts into a breathtaking grin.
“Oh yes, Mr. Grey, but you’ll have to wait until then.”
I wake suddenly from a dream or nightmare, and my pulse is thumping. I turn, panicked, and to my
relief, Christian is fast asleep beside me. Because I’ve shifted, he stirs and reaches out in his sleep,
draping his arm over me, and rests his head on my shoulder, sighing softly.
The room is flooded with light. It’s eight o’clock. Christian never sleeps this late. I lie back andlet my racing heart calm. Why the anxiety? Is it the aftermath of last night?
I turn and stare at him. He’s here. He’s safe. I take a deep steadying breath and gaze at his lovely
face. A face that is now so familiar, all its dips and shadows eternally etched on my mind.
He looks much younger when he’s asleep, and I grin because today he’s a whole year older. I hug
myself, thinking about my present. Oooh... what will he do? Perhaps I should start by bringing him
breakfast in bed. Besides, José may still be here.
I find José at the counter, eating a bowl of cereal. I can’t help but flush when I see him. He knows
I’ve spent the night with Christian. Why do I suddenly feel so shy? It’s not as if I’m naked or
anything. I’m wearing my silk floor-length wrap.
“Morning, José,” I smile, brazening it out.
“Hey, Ana!” His face lights up, genuinely pleased to see me. There’s no hint of teasing or
salacious contempt in his expression.
“Sleep well?” I ask.
“Sure. Some view from up here.”
“Yeah. It’s pretty special.” Like the owner of this apartment. “Want a real man’s breakfast?” I
tease.
“Love some.”
“It’s Christian’s birthday today—I’m making him breakfast in bed.”
“He awake?”
“No, I think he’s fried from yesterday.” I quickly glance away from him and head to the fridge so
he can’t see my blush. Jeez, it’s only José. When I take the eggs and bacon out of the fridge, José is
grinning at me.
“You really like him, don’t you?”
I purse my lips. “I love him, José.”
His eyes widen momentarily then he grins. “What’s not to love?” he asks gesturing round the
great room.
I scowl at him. “Gee, thanks!”
“Hey, Ana, just kidding.”
Hmm... will I always have this leveled at me? That I’m marrying Christian for his money?
“Seriously, I’m kidding. You’ve never been that kind of girl.”
“Omelet good for you?” I ask, changing the subject. I don’t want to argue.
“Sure.”
“And me,” Christian says as he saunters into the great room. Holy fuck, he’s wearing only pajama
bottoms that hang in that totally hot way off his hips—Jeez!
“José.” He nods.
“Christian.” José returns his nod solemnly.
Christian turns to me and smirks as I stare. He’s done this on purpose. I narrow my eyes at him,
desperately trying to recover my equilibrium, and Christian’s expression alters subtly. He knows that I
know what he’s up to, and he doesn’t care.
“I was going to bring you breakfast in bed.”
Swaggering over, he wraps his arm around me, tilts my chin up, and plants a loud wet kiss on my
lips. Very unFifty!
“Good morning, Anastasia,” he says. I want to scowl at him and tell him to behave—but it’s his
birthday. I flush. Why is he so territorial?
“Good morning, Christian. Happy birthday.” I give him a smile, and he smirks at me.
“I’m looking forward to my other present,” he says and that’s it. I flush the color of the Red
Room of Pain and glance nervously at José, who looks like he’s swallowed something unpleasant. Iturn away and start preparing the food.
“So what are your plans today, José?” Christian asks, seemingly casual as he sits down on a
barstool.
“I’m heading up to see my dad and Ray, Ana’s dad.”
Christian frowns.
“They know each other?”
“Yeah, they were in the army together. They lost contact until Ana and I were in college together.
It’s kinda cute. They’re best buds now. We’re going on a fishing trip.”
“Fishing?” Christian is genuinely interested.
“Yeah—some great catches in these coastal waters. The steelheads can grow way big.”
“True. My brother Elliot and I landed a thirty-four pound steelhead once.”
They’re talkingfishing? What is it about fishing? I have never understood it.
“Thirty-four pounds? Not bad. Ana’s father though, he holds the record. A forty-three pounder.”
“You’re kidding! He never said.”
“Happy birthday, by the way.”
“Thanks. So, where do you like to fish?”
I zone out. This I do not need to know. But at the same time I’m relieved. See, Christian? José’s
not so bad.
By the time José makes to leave, both of them are much more relaxed with each other. Christian
quickly changes into T-shirt and jeans and barefoot he accompanies José and me to the foyer.
“Thanks for letting me crash here,” José says to Christian as they shake hands.
“Anytime,” Christian smiles.
José hugs me quickly. “Stay safe, Ana.”
“Sure. Great to see you. Next time we’ll have a proper evening out.”
“I’ll hold you to that.” He waves at us from inside the elevator, and then he’s gone.
“See, he’s not so bad.”
“He still wants into your panties, Ana. But can’t say I blame him.”
“Christian, that’s not true!”
“You have no idea, do you?” He smirks down at me. “He wants you. Big time. ”
I frown. “Christian, he’s just a friend, a good friend.” And I’m suddenly aware that I sound like
Christian when he’s talking about Mrs. Robinson. The thought is unsettling.
Christian holds up his hands in a placating gesture.
“I don’t want to fight,” he says softly.
Oh! We’re not fighting... are we? “Me neither.”
“You didn’t tell him we were getting married.”
“No. I figured I ought to tell Mom and Ray first.” Shit. It’s the first time I’ve thought about this
since I said yes. Jeez—what are my parents going to say?
Christian nods. “Yes, you’re right. And I... um, I should ask your father.”
I laugh. “Oh, Christian—this isn’t the eighteenth century.”
Holy shit. What will Ray say? The thought of that conversation fills me with horror.
“It’s traditional.” Christian shrugs.
“Let’s talk about that later. I want to give you your other present.” My aim is to distract him. The
thought of my present is burning a hole in my consciousness. I need to give it to him and see how hereacts.
He gives me his shy smile, and my heart skips a beat. For as long as I live, I’ll never tire of
looking at that smile.
“You’re biting your lip,” he says and pulls on my chin.
A thrill runs through my body as his fingers touch me. Without a word, and while I still have a
modicum of courage, I take his hand and lead him back to the bedroom. I drop his hand, leaving him
standing by the bed, and from under my side of the bed, I take out the two remaining gift boxes.
“Two?” he says, surprised.
I take a deep breath. “I bought this before the, um... incident yesterday. I’m not sure about it
now.” I quickly hand him one of the parcels before I can change my mind. He gazes at me, puzzled,
sensing my uncertainty.
“Sure you want me to open it?”
I nod, anxious.
Christian tears off the packaging and gazes in surprise at the box.
“Charlie Tango,” I whisper.
He grins. The box contains a small wooden helicopter with a large, solar-powered rotor blade. He
opens it up.
“Solar powered,” he murmurs. “Wow.” And before I know it he’s sitting on the bed assembling
it. It snaps together quickly, and Christian holds it up in the palm of his hand. A blue wooden
helicopter. He looks up at me and gives me his glorious, all-American-boy smile, then heads to the
window so that the little helicopter is bathed in sunlight and the rotor starts to spin.
“Look at that,” he breathes, examining it closely. “What we can already do with this technology.”
He holds it at eye level, watching the blades spin. He’s fascinated and fascinating to watch as he loses
himself in thought, staring at the little helicopter. What is he thinking?
“You like it?”
“Ana, I love it. Thank you.” He grabs me and kisses me swiftly, then turns back to watch the rotor
spin. “I’ll add it to the glider in my office,” he says distractedly, watching the blade spin. He moves
his hand out of the sunlight, and the blade slows down and comes to a stop.
I can’t help my face-splitting grin, and I want to hug myself. He loves it. Of course, he’s all about
alternative technologies. I’d forgotten that in my haste to buy it. Placing it on the chest of drawers, he
turns to face me.
“It’ll keep me company while we salvage Charlie Tango.”
“Is it salvageable?”
“I don’t know. I hope so. I’ll miss her, otherwise.”
Her? I am shocked at myself for the small pang of jealousy I feel for an inanimate object. My
subconscious snorts with derisory laughter. I ignore her.
“What’s in the other box?” he asks, his eyes wide with almost childish excitement.
Holy fuck. “I’m not sure if this present is for you or me.”
“Really?” he asks, and I know I have piqued his interest. Nervously I hand him the second box.
He shakes it gently and we both hear a heavy rattle. He glances up at me.
“Why are you so nervous?” he asks, bemused. I shrug, embarrassed and excited as I flush. He
raises an eyebrow at me.
“You have me intrigued, Miss Steele,” he whispers, and his voice runs right through me, desire
and anticipation spawning in my belly. “I have to say I’m enjoying your reaction. What have you been
up to?” He narrows his eyes speculatively.
I remain tight-lipped as I hold my breath.
He removes the lid of the box and takes out a small card. The rest of the contents are wrapped intissue. He opens the card, and his eyes dart quickly to mine—widening with shock or surprise. I just
don’t know.
“Do rude things to you?” he murmurs. I nod and swallow. He cocks his head to one side warily,
assessing my reaction, and frowns. Then turns his attention back to the box. He tears through the pale-
blue tissue paper and fishes out an eye mask, some nipple clamps, a butt plug, his iPod, his silver-gray
tie—and last but by no means least—the key to his playroom.
He gazes at me, his expression dark, unreadable. Oh shit. Is this a bad move?
“You want to play?” he asks softly.
“Yes,” I breathe.
“For my birthday?”
“Yes.” Could my voice sound any smaller?
A myriad of emotions cross his face, none of which I can place, but he settles for anxious. Hmm...
Not quite the reaction I was expecting.
“You’re sure?” he asks.
“Not the whips and stuff.”
“I understand that.”
“Yes, then. I’m sure.”
He shakes his head and gazes down at the contents of the box. “Sex mad and insatiable. Well, I
think we can do something with this lot,” he murmurs almost to himself, then puts the contents back
in the box. When he glances at me again, his expression has completely changed. Holy cow, his gray
eyes burn, and his mouth lifts in a slow erotic smile. He holds out his hand.
“Now,” he says, and it’s not a request. My belly clenches, tight and hard, deep, deep down.
I put my hand in his.
“Come,” he orders, and I follow him out of the bedroom, my heart in my mouth. Desire races
slick and hot through my blood as my insides tighten with hungry anticipation. My inner goddess
somersaults round her chaise longue. Finally!Christian pauses outside the playroom.
“You’re sure about this?” he asks, his gaze heated yet anxious.
“Yes,” I murmur, smiling shyly at him.
His eyes soften. “Anything you don’t want to do?”
I’m derailed by his unexpected question, and my mind goes into overdrive. One thought occurs.
“I don’t want you to take photos of me.”
He stills, and his expression hardens as he cocks his head to one side and eyes me speculatively.
Oh shit. I think he’s going to ask me why, but fortunately he doesn’t.
“Okay,” he murmurs. His brow furrows as he unlocks the door, then stands aside to usher me into
the room. I feel his eyes on me as he follows me inside and closes the door.
Placing the gift box on the chest of drawers, he takes out the iPod, switches it on, then waves at
the music center on the wall so that the smoked glass doors glide silently open. He presses some
buttons, and after a moment, the sound of a subway train echoes round the room. He turns it down so
that the slow, hypnotic electronic beat that follows becomes ambient. A woman starts to sing, I don’t
know who she is but her voice is soft yet rasping and the beat is measured, deliberate... erotic. Oh my.
It’s music to make love to.
Christian turns to face me as I stand in the middle of the room, my heart pounding, my blood
singing in my veins, pulsing—or so it feels—in time to the music’s seductive beat. He saunters
casually over to me and tugs on my chin so I’m no longer biting my lip.
“What do you want to do, Anastasia?” he murmurs, planting a soft chaste kiss at the corner of my
mouth, his fingers still grasping my chin.
“It’s your birthday. Whatever you want,” I whisper. He traces his thumb along my lower lip, his
brow creased once more.
“Are we in here because you think I want to be in here?” His words are softly spoken, but he
regards me intently.
“No,” I whisper. “I want to be in here, too.”
His gaze darkens, growing bolder as he assesses my response. After what seems an eternity, he
speaks.
“Oh, there are so many possibilities, Miss Steele.” His voice is low, excited. “But let’s start withgetting you naked.” He pulls the sash of my robe so that it falls open, revealing my silk nightdress,
then steps back and sits nonchalantly down on the arm of the chesterfield couch.
“Take your clothes off. Slowly.” He gives me a sensual, challenging look.
I swallow compulsively, pressing my thighs together. I’m already damp between my legs. My
inner goddess is stripped naked and standing in line, ready and waiting and begging me to play catch-
up. I pull the robe away from my shoulders, my eyes never leaving his, and shrug, letting it fall
billowing to the floor. His mesmerizing gray eyes heat, and he runs his index finger over his lips as he
gazes at me.
Slipping the spaghetti straps of my gown off my shoulders, I gaze at him for a beat, then release
them. My nightdress skims and ripples softly down my body, pooling at my feet. I am naked and
practically panting and oh-so-ready.
Christian pauses for a moment, and I marvel at the frankly carnal appreciation in his expression.
Standing up, he makes his way over to the chest and picks up his silver-gray tie—my favorite tie. He
pulls it through his fingers as he turns and strolls casually toward me, a smile playing on his lips.
When he stands in front of me, I expect him to ask for my hands, but he doesn’t.
“I think you’re underdressed, Miss Steele,” he murmurs. He places the tie around my neck, and
slowly but dexterously ties it in what I assume is a fine Windsor knot. As he tightens the knot, his
fingers brush the base of my throat and electricity shoots through me, making me gasp. He leaves the
wide end of the tie long, long enough so the tip skims my pubic hair.
“You look mighty fine now, Miss Steele,” he says and bends to kiss me gently on my lips. It’s a
swift kiss, and I want more, desire spiraling wantonly through my body.
“What shall we do with you now?” he says, and then picking up the tie, he yanks sharply so that
I’m forced forward into his arms. His hands dive into my hair and pull my head back, and he really
kisses me, hard, his tongue unforgiving and merciless. One of his hands roams freely down my back to
cup my behind. When he pulls away, he’s panting too and gazing down at me, his eyes molten gray;
and I’m left wanting, gasping for breath, my wits thoroughly scattered. I’m sure my lips will be
swollen after his sensual assault.
“Turn around,” he orders gently and I obey. Pulling my hair free of the tie, he quickly braids and
secures it. He tugs the braid so my head tilts up.
“You have beautiful hair, Anastasia,” he murmurs and kisses my throat, sending shivers running
up and down my spine. “You just have to say stop. You know that, don’t you?” he whispers against my
throat.
I nod, my eyes closed, and relish his lips on me. He turns me round once more and picks up the
end of the tie.
“Come,” he says, tugging gently, leading me over to the chest where the rest of the box’s contents
are on display.
“Anastasia, these objects.” He holds up the butt plug. “This is a size too big. As an anal virgin,
you don’t want to start with this. We want to start with this.” He holds up his pinky finger, and I gasp,
shocked. Fingers... there? He smirks at me, and the unpleasant thought of the anal fisting mentioned
in the contract comes to mind.
“Just finger—singular,” he says softly with that uncanny ability he has to read my mind. My eyes
dart to his. How does he do that?
“These clamps are vicious.” He prods the nipple clamps. “We’ll use these.” He places a different
pair of clamps on the chest. They look like giant black hairpins, but with little jet jewels hanging
down. “They’re adjustable,” Christian murmurs, his voice laced with gentle concern.
I blink up at him, wide-eyed. Christian, my sexual mentor. He knows so much more about all this
than I do. I’ll never catch up. I frown. He knows more than me about most things... except cooking.“Clear?” he asks.
“Yes,” I whisper, my mouth dry. “Are you going to tell me what you intend to do?”
“No. I’m making this up as I go along. This isn’t a scene, Ana.”
“How should I behave?”
His brow creases. “However you want to.”
Oh!
“Were you expecting my alter ego, Anastasia?” he asks, his tone vaguely mocking and bemused
at once. I blink at him.
“Well, yes. I like him,” I murmur. He smiles his private smile and reaches up to run his thumb
down my cheek.
“Do you now,” he breathes and runs his thumb across my lower lip. “I’m your lover, Anastasia,
not your Dom. I love to hear your laugh and your girlish giggle. I like you relaxed and happy, like you
are in José’s photos. That’s the girl that fell into my office. That’s the girl I fell in love with.”
Holy cow. My mouth drops open, and a welcome warmth blooms in my heart. It’s joy—pure joy.
“But having said all that, I also like to do rude things to you, Miss Steele; and my alter ego knows
a trick or two. So, do as you’re told and turn around.” His eyes glint wickedly, and the joy moves
sharply south, seizing me tightly and gripping every sinew below my waist. I do as I’m told. Behind
me, he opens one of the drawers and a moment later he’s in front of me again.
“Come,” he orders and tugs on the tie, leading me to the table. As we walk past the couch, I
notice for the first time that all the canes have vanished. It distracts me. Were they there yesterday
when I came in? I don’t remember. Did Christian move them? Mrs. Jones? Christian interrupts my
train of thought.
“I want you to kneel up on this,” he says when we’re at the table.
Oh, okay. What does he have in mind? My inner goddess can’t wait to find out—she’s already
scissor-kicked onto the table and is watching him with adoration.
He gently lifts me onto the table, and I fold my legs beneath me and kneel in front of him,
surprised by my own grace. Now we are eye to eye. He runs his hands down my thighs, grasps my
knees, and pulls my legs apart and stands directly in front of me. He looks very serious, his eyes
darker, hooded... lustful.
“Arms behind your back. I’m going to cuff you.”
He produces some leather cuffs from his back pocket and reaches around me. This is it. Where’s
he going to take me this time?
His proximity is intoxicating. This man is going to be my husband. Can one lust after one’s
husband like this? I don’t remember reading about that anywhere. I can’t resist him, and I run my
parted lips along his jaw, feeling the stubble, a heady combination of prickly and soft, under my
tongue. He stills and closes his eyes. His breathing falters and he pulls back.
“Stop. Or this will be over far quicker than either of us wants,” he warns. For a moment, I think
he might be angry but then he smiles, and his heated eyes are alight with amusement.
“You’re irresistible,” I pout.
“Am I now?” he says dryly.
I nod.
“Well—don’t distract me, or I’ll gag you.”
“I like distracting you,” I whisper, looking mulishly at him, and he cocks his eyebrow at me.
“Or spank you.”
Oh! I try to hide my smile. There was a time, not very long ago, when I would have been subdued
by this threat. I would never have had the nerve to kiss him, unbidden, while he was in this room. I
realize now, I’m no longer intimidated by him. It’s a revelation. I grin mischievously, and he smirksat me.
“Behave,” he growls and stands back, gazing at me and slaps the leather cuffs across his palm.
And the warning is there, implicit in his actions. I try for contrite, and I think I succeed. He
approaches me again.
“That’s better,” he breathes and leans behind me once more with the cuffs. I resist touching him
but inhale his glorious Christian scent, still fresh from last night’s shower. Hmm... I should bottle this.
I expect him to cuff my wrists, but he attaches each cuff above my elbows. It makes me arch my
back, pushing my breasts forward, though my elbows are by no means together. When he’s finished,
he stands back to admire me.
“Feel okay?” he asks. It’s not the most comfortable of positions, but I’m so wired with
anticipation to see where he’s going with this that I nod, weak with wanting.
“Good.” He pulls the mask from his back pocket.
“I think you’ve seen enough now,” he murmurs. He slides the mask over my head, covering my
eyes. My breathing spikes. Wow. Why is not being able to see so erotic? I am here, trussed up and
kneeling on a table, waiting—sweet anticipation hot and heavy deep in my belly. I can still hear,
though, and the melodic steady beat of the track continues. It resonates through my body. I hadn’t
noticed before. He must have it on repeat.
Christian steps away. What is he doing? He moves back to the chest and opens a drawer, then
closes it again. A moment later he’s back, and I sense him in front of me. There’s a pungent, rich,
musky scent in the air. It’s delicious,almost mouth-watering.
“I don’t want to ruin my favorite tie,” he murmurs. It slowly unravels as he undoes it.
I inhale sharply as the tail of the tie travels up my body, tickling me in its wake. Ruin his tie? I
listen acutely to determine what he’s going to do. He’s rubbing his hands together. His knuckles
suddenly brush over my cheek, down to my jaw following my jawline.
My body leaps to attention as his touch sends a delicious shiver through me. His hand flexes over
my neck, and it’s slick with sweet-smelling oil so his hand glides smoothly down my throat, across
my clavicle, and up to my shoulder, his fingers kneading gently as they go. Oh, I’m getting a massage.
Not what I expected.
He places his other hand on my other shoulder and begins another slow teasing journey across my
clavicle. I groan softly as he works his way down toward my increasingly aching breasts, aching for
his touch. It’s tantalizing. I arch my body further into his deft touch, but his hands glide to my sides,
slow, measured, in time to the beat of the music, and studiously avoid my breasts. I groan, but I don’t
know if it’s from pleasure or frustration.
“You are so beautiful, Ana,” he murmurs, his voice low and husky, his mouth next to my ear. His
nose follows along my jaw as he continues to massage me—beneath my breasts, across my belly,
down... He kisses me fleetingly on my lips, then he runs his nose down my neck, my throat. Holy cow,
I’m on fire... his nearness, his hands, his words.
“And soon you’ll be my wife to have and to hold,” he whispers.
Oh my.
“To love and to cherish.”
Jeez.
“With my body, I will worship you.”
I tip my head back and moan. His fingers run through my pubic hair, over my sex, and he rubs the
palm of his hand against my clitoris.
“Mrs. Grey,” he whispers as his palm works against me.
I groan.“Yes,” he breathes as his palm continues to tease me. “Open your mouth.”
My mouth is already open from panting. I open wider, and he slips a large cool metal object
between my lips. Shaped like an oversized baby’s pacifier, it has small grooves or carvings, and what
feels like a chain at the end. It’s big.
“Suck,” he commands softly. “I’m going to put this inside you.”
Inside me? Inside me where? My heart lurches into my mouth.
“Suck,” he repeats and he stops palming me.
No. Don’t stop, I want to shout, but my mouth is full. His oiled hands glide back up my body and
finally cup my neglected breasts.
“Don’t stop sucking.”
Gently he rolls my nipples between his thumbs and forefingers, and they harden and lengthen
under his expert touch, sending synaptic waves of pleasure all the way to my groin.
“You have such beautiful breasts, Ana,” he murmurs and my nipples harden further in response.
He murmurs his approval and I moan. His lips move down from my neck toward one breast, trailing
soft bites and sucks over and over, down toward my nipple, and suddenly I feel the pinch of the clamp.
“Ah!”I garble my groan through the device in my mouth. Holy cow, the feeling is exquisite, raw,
painful, pleasurable... oh—the pinch. Gently, he laves the restrained nipple with his tongue, and as he
does so, he applies the other. The bite of the second clamp is equally harsh... but just as good. I groan
loudly.
“Feel it,” he whispers.
Oh, I do. I do. I do.
“Give me this.” He tugs gently on the ornate metal pacifier in my mouth, and I release it. His
hands once more trail down my body, toward my sex. He’s re-oiled his hands. They glide around to
my backside.
I gasp. What’s he going to do? I tense up on my knees as he runs his fingers between my
buttocks.
“Hush, easy,” he breathes close to my ear and kisses my neck as his fingers stroke and tease me.
What’s he going to do? His other hand glides down my belly to my sex, palming me once more.
He eases his fingers inside me, and I moan loudly, appreciatively.
“I’m going to put this inside you,” he murmurs. “Not here.” His fingers trail between my
buttocks, spreading oil. “But here.” He moves his fingers round and round, in and out, hitting the front
wall of my vagina. I moan and my restrained nipples swell.
“Ah.”
“Hush now.” Christian removes his fingers and slides the object into me. He cups my face and
kisses me, his mouth invading mine, and I hear a very faint click. Instantly the plug inside me starts to
vibrate—down there! I gasp. The feeling is extraordinary—beyond anything I’ve felt before.
“Ah!”
“Easy,” Christian calms me, stifling my gasps with his mouth. His hands move down and tug
very gently on the clamps. I cry out loudly.
“Christian, please!”
“Hush, baby. Hang in there.”
This is too much—all this overstimulation, everywhere. My body starts to climb, and on my
knees, I’m unable to control the buildup. Oh my... Will I be able to handle this?
“Good girl,” he soothes.
“Christian,” I pant, sounding desperate even to my own ears.
“Hush, feel it, Ana. Don’t be afraid.” His hands are now on my waist, holding me, but I can’tconcentrate on his hands, what’s inside me, and the clamps, too. My body is building, building to an
explosion—with the relentless vibrations and the sweet, sweet torture of my nipples. Holy hell. It will
be too intense. His hands move from my hips, down and around, slick and oiled, touching, feeling,
kneading my skin—kneading my behind.
“So beautiful,” he murmurs and suddenly he gently pushes an anointed finger inside me... there!
Into my backside. Fuck. It feels alien, full, forbidden... but oh... so... good. And he moves slowly,
easing in and out, while his teeth graze my upturned chin.
“So beautiful, Ana.”
I’m suspended high—high above a wide, wide ravine, and I’m soaring then falling giddily at the
same time, plunging to the Earth. I can hold on no more, and I scream as my body convulses and
climaxes at the overwhelming fullness. As my body explodes, I’m nothing but sensation—
everywhere. Christian releases first one and then the other clamp, causing my nipples to sing with a
surge of sweet, sweet painful feeling, but it’s oh-so-goodand causing my orgasm, this orgasm, to go on
and on. His finger stays where it is, gently easing in and out.
“Argh!” I cry out, and Christian wraps himself around me, holding me, as my body continues to
pulse mercilessly inside.
“No!” I shout again, pleading, and this time he tugs the vibrator out of me, and his finger, too, as
my body continues to convulse.
He unstraps one of the cuffs so that my arms fall forward. My head lolls on his shoulder, and I
am lost, lost to all this overwhelming sensation. I’m all shattered breath, exhausted desire and sweet,
welcome oblivion.
Vaguely, I’m aware that Christian lifts me, carries me over to the bed, and lays me down on the
cool satin sheets. After a moment, his hands, still oiled, gently rub the backs of my thighs, my knees,
my calves, and my shoulders. I feel the bed dip as he stretches out beside me.
He pulls the mask off, but I don’t have the energy to open my eyes. Finding my braid he undoes
the hair tie and leans forward, kissing me softly on my lips. Only my erratic breathing disturbs the
silence in the room and steadies as I float gently back to Earth. The music has stopped.
“So beautiful,” he murmurs.
When I persuade one eye to open, he’s gazing down at me, smiling softly.
“Hi,” he says. I manage a grunt in response, and his smile broadens. “Rude enough for you?”
I nod and give him a reluctant grin. Jeez, any ruder and I’d have to spank the pair of us.
“I think you’re trying to kill me,” I mutter.
“Death by orgasm.” He smirks. “There are worse ways to go,” he says but then frowns ever so
slightly as an unpleasant thought crosses his mind. It distresses me. I reach up and caress his face.
“You can kill me like this anytime,” I whisper. I notice that he’s gloriously naked and ready for
action. When he takes my hand and kisses my knuckles, I lean up and capture his face between my
hands and pull his mouth to mine. He kisses me briefly, then stops.
“This is what I want to do,” he murmurs and reaches beneath his pillow for the music center
remote. He presses a button and the soft strains of a guitar echo round the walls.
“I want to make love to you,” he says gazing down at me, his gray eyes burning with bright,
loving sincerity. Softly in background, a familiar voice starts to sing “The First Time Ever I Saw Your
Face.” And his lips find mine.
As I tighten around him, finding my release once more, Christian unravels in my arms, his headthrown back as he calls out my name. He clasps me tightly to his chest as we sit nose to nose in the
middle of his vast bed, me astride him. And in this moment—this moment of joy with this man to this
music—the intensity of my experience this morning in here with him and all that has occurred during
the past week overwhelms me anew, not just physically but emotionally. I am completely overcome
with all these feelings. I am so deeply, deeply in love with him. For the first time I’m offered a
glimmer of understanding as to how he feels about my safety.
Recalling his close call with Charlie Tango yesterday, I shudder at the thought and tears pool in
my eyes. If anything ever happened to him—I love him so. My tears run unchecked down my cheeks.
So many sides of Christian—his sweet, gentle persona and his rugged, I-can-do-what-I-fucking-well-
like-to-you-and-you’ll-come-like-a-train Dominant side—his fifty shades—all of him. All
spectacular. All mine. And I’m aware we don’t know each other well, and we have a mountain of
issues to overcome, but I know for each other, we will—and we’ll have a lifetime to do it.
“Hey,” he breathes, clasping my head in his hands, gazing down at me. He’s still inside me.
“Why are you crying?” His voice is filled with concern.
“Because I love you so much,” I whisper. He half-closes his eyes as if drugged, absorbing my
words. When he opens them again, they blaze with his love.
“And I you, Ana. You make me... whole.” He kisses me gently as Roberta Flack finishes her song.
We have talked and talked and talked, sitting upright together on the bed in the playroom, me in his
lap, our legs curled around each other. The red satin sheet is draped around us like a royal cocoon, and
I have no idea how much time has passed. Christian is laughing at my impersonation of Katherine
during the photo shoot at the Heathman.
“To think it could have been her who came to interview me. Thank the Lord for the common
cold,” he murmurs and kisses my nose.
“I believe she had flu, Christian,” I scold him, trailing my fingers idly through his chest hair and
marveling that he’s tolerating it so well. “All the canes have gone,” I murmur, recalling my distraction
from earlier. He tucks my hair behind my ear for the umpteenth time.
“I didn’t think you’d ever get past that hard limit.”
“No, I don’t think I will,” I whisper wide-eyed at him, then find myself glancing over at the
whips, paddles and floggers lining the opposite wall. He follows my gaze.
“You want me to get rid of them, too?” He’s amused but sincere.
“Not the crop... the brown one. Or that suede flogger, you know.” I flush.
He smiles down at me.
“Okay, the crop and the flogger. Why, Miss Steele, you’re full of surprises.”
“As are you, Mr. Grey. It’s one of the things I love about you.” I kiss him gently at the corner of
his mouth.
“What else do you love about me?” he asks and his eyes widen.
I know it’s a huge deal for him to ask this question. It humbles me and I blink at him. I love
everything about him—even his fifty shades. I know that life with Christian will never be boring.
“This.” I stroke my index finger across his lips. “I love this, and what comes out of it, and what
you do to me with it. And what’s in here.” I caress his temple. “You’re so smart and witty and
knowledgeable, competent in so many things. But most of all, I love what’s in here.” I press my palm
gently against his chest, feeling his steady, beating heart. “You are the most compassionate man I’ve
met. What you do. How you work. It’s awe-inspiring,” I whisper.“Awe-inspiring?” He’s puzzled, but there’s a trace of humor on his face. Then his face
transforms, and his shy smile appears as if he’s embarrassed, and I want to launch myself at him. So I
do.
I am dozing, wrapped in satin and Grey. Christian nuzzles me awake.
“Hungry?” he whispers
“Hmm, famished.”
“Me, too.”
I lean up to gaze down at him sprawled on the bed.
“It’s your birthday, Mr. Grey. I’ll cook you something. What would you like?”
“Surprise me.” He runs his hand down my back, stroking me gently. “I should check my
Blackberry for all the messages I missed yesterday.” He sighs and starts to sit up, and I know this
special time is over... for now.
“Let’s shower,” he says.
Who am I to turn down the birthday boy?
Christian is in his study on the phone. Taylor is with him, looking serious but casual in jeans and a
tight, black T-shirt. I busy myself in the kitchen fixing lunch. I have found salmon steaks in the fridge,
and I’m poaching them with lemon, making a salad, and boiling some baby potatoes. I feel
extraordinarily relaxed and happy, on top of the world—literally. Turning toward the large window, I
stare out at the glorious blue sky. All that talking... all that sexing... hmm. A girl could get used to that.
Taylor emerges from the study, interrupting my reverie. I turn down my iPod and take out an ear
bud.
“Hi, Taylor.”
“Ana.” He nods.
“Your daughter okay?”
“Yes, thanks. My ex-wife thought she had appendicitis, but she was overreacting as usual.”
Taylor rolls his eyes, surprising me. “Sophie’s fine, though she has a nasty stomach bug.”
“I’m sorry.”
He smiles.
“Has Charlie Tango been located?”
“Yes. The recovery team is on its way. She should be back at Boeing Field late tonight.”
“Oh, good.”
He gives me a tight smile. “Will that be all, ma’am?”
“Yes, yes of course.” I flush... will I ever get used to Taylor calling me ma’am? It makes me feel
so old, at least thirty.
He nods and heads out of the great room. Christian is still on the phone. I am waiting for the
potatoes to boil. It gives me an idea. Fetching my purse, I fish out my Blackberry. There’s a text from
Kate.
*C U this evening. Looking forward to a loooooong chat*I text back.
*Same here*
It will be good to talk to Kate.
Calling up the e-mail program, I type a quick message to Christian.
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Lunch
Date: June 18, 2011 13:12
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. Grey
I am e-mailing to inform you that your lunch is nearly ready.
And that I had some mind-blowing, kinky fuckery earlier today.
Birthday kinky fuckery is to be recommended.
And another thing—I love you.
A x
(Your fiancée)
I listen carefully for a reaction, but he’s still on the phone. I shrug. Perhaps he’s just too busy. My
Blackberry vibrates.
From: Christian Grey
Subject: Kinky Fuckery
Date: June 18, 2011 13:15
To: Anastasia Steele
What aspect was most mind-blowing?
I’m taking notes.
Christian Grey
Famished and Wasting Away After the Mornings Exertions CEO, Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc.
PS: I love your signature
PPS: What happened to the art of conversation?
From: Anastasia Steele
Subject: Famished?
Date: June 18, 2011 13:18
To: Christian Grey
Dear Mr. GreyMay I draw your attention to the first line of my previous e-mail informing you that your lunch is indeed almost ready... so none of this famished and wasting away nonsense. With regard to the mind-blowing aspects of the kinky fuckery... frankly—all of it.
I’d be interested in reading your notes. And I like my bracketed signature, too.
A x
(Your fiancée)
PS: Since when have you been so loquacious? And you’re on the phone!
I press send and look up, and he’s standing in front of me, smirking. Before I can say anything, he
bounds around the kitchen island, sweeps me up in his arms, and kisses me soundly.
“That is all, Miss Steele,” he says, releasing me, and he saunters—in his jeans, bare feet and
untucked white shirt—back to his office, leaving me breathless.
I’ve made a watercress, cilantro, and sour cream dip to accompany the salmon, and I’ve set the
breakfast bar. I hate interrupting him while he’s working, but now I stand in the doorway of his office.
He’s still on the phone, all thoroughly fucked hair and bright gray eyes—a visually nourishing feast.
He looks up when he sees me and doesn’t take his eyes off me. He frowns slightly, and I don’t know if
it’s at me or because of his conversation.
“Just let them in and leave them alone. Do you understand, Mia?” he hisses and rolls his eyes.
“Good.”
I mime eating, and he grins at me and nods.
“I’ll see you later.” He hangs up. “One more call?” he asks.
“Sure.”
“That dress is very short,” he adds.
“You like it?” I give him a quick twirl. It’s one of Caroline Acton’s purchases. A soft turquoise
sundress, probably more suitable for the beach, but it’s such a lovely day on so many levels. He
frowns and my face falls.
“You look fantastic in it, Ana. I just don’t want anyone else to see you like that.”
“Oh!” I scowl at him. “We’re at home, Christian. No one but the staff.”
His mouth twists, and either he’s trying to hide his amusement or he really doesn’t think that’s
funny. But eventually he nods, reassured. I shake my head at him—he’s actually being serious? I head
back to the kitchen.
Five minutes later, he’s back in front of me, holding the phone.
“I have Ray for you,” he murmurs, his eyes wary.
All the air leaves my body at once. I take the phone and cover the mouthpiece.
“You told him!” I hiss. Christian nods, and his eyes widen at my obvious look of distress.
Shit! I take a deep breath. “Hi, Dad.”
“Christian has just asked me if he can marry you,” Ray says.
Oh Shit. The silence stretches between us as I desperately think what to say. Ray as usual stays
silent, giving me no clue as to his reaction to this news.
“What did you say?” I crack first.
“I said I wanted to talk to you. It’s kind of sudden, don’t you think, Annie? You’ve not known
him long. I mean, he’s a nice guy, knows his fishing... but so soon?” His voice is calm and measured.
“Yes. It is sudden... hang on.” Hastily, I leave the kitchen area away from Christian’s anxious
gaze and head toward the great window. The doors to the balcony are open, and I step out into the
sunshine. I can’t quite walk to the edge. It’s just too far up.
“I know it’s sudden and all—but... well, I love him. He loves me. He wants to marry me, andthere’ll never be anyone else for me.” I flush thinking this is probably the most intimate conversation
I have ever had with my stepfather.
Ray is silent on the other end of the phone.
“Have you told your mother?”
“No.”
“Annie... I know he’s all kinds of rich and eligible, but marriage? It’s such a big step. You’re
sure?”
“He’s my happily ever after,” I whisper.
“Whoa.” Ray says after a moment, his tone softer.
“He’s everything.”
“Annie, Annie, Annie. You’re such a headstrong young woman. I hope to God you know what
you’re doing. Hand me back to him, will you?”
“Sure, Dad, and will you give me away at the wedding?” I ask quietly.
“Oh, honey.” His voice cracks, and he’s quiet for a few moments, the emotion in his voice
bringing tears to my eyes. “Nothing would give me greater pleasure,” he says eventually.
I swallow, to keep from crying. “Thank you, Dad. I’ll hand you back to Christian. Be
gentle with him. I love him,” I whisper.
I think Ray is smiling on the other end of the line, but it’s hard to tell. It’s always hard to tell
with Ray.
“Sure thing, Annie. And come and visit this old man and bring that Christian with you.”
I march back into the room—pissed at Christian for not warning me—and hand him the phone,
my expression letting him know just how pissed I am. He’s amused as he takes the phone and heads
back into his study.
Two minutes later, he reappears.
“I have your stepfather’s rather begrudging blessing,” he says proudly, so proudly, in fact, that it
makes me giggle, and he grins at me. He’s acting like he’s just negotiated a major new merger or
acquisition, which I suppose on one level, he has.
Oh, Ray. I love you so much...
“Damn, you’re a good cook, woman.” Christian swallows his last mouthful and raises his glass of
white wine to me. I blossom under his praise, and it occurs to me I’ll only get to cook for him on
weekends. I frown. I enjoy cooking. Perhaps I should have made him a cake for his birthday. I check
my watch. I still have time.
“Ana?” He interrupts my thoughts. “Why did you ask me not to take your photo?” His question
startles me all the more because his voice is deceptively soft.
Oh... shit. The photos. I stare down at my empty plate, twisting my fingers in my lap. What can I
say? I’d promised myself not to mention that I’d found his version of Readers’ Wives.
“Ana,” he snaps. “What is it?” He makes me jump, and his voice commands me to look at him.
When did I think he didn’t intimidate me?
“I found your photos,” I whisper.
His eyes widen in shock. “You’ve been in the safe?” he asks, incredulous.
“Safe? No. I didn’t know you had a safe.”
He frowns. “I don’t understand.”
“In your closet. The box. I was looking for your tie, and the box was under your jeans... the ones
you normally wear in the playroom. Except today.” I flush.He gapes at me, appalled, and nervously runs his hand through his hair as he processes this
information. He rubs his chin, lost in thought, but he can’t mask the perplexed annoyance etched on
his face. Abruptly he shakes his head, exasperated—but amused, too—and a faint smile of admiration
kisses the corner of his mouth. He steeples his hands in front of him and focuses on me once more.
“It’s not what you think. I’d forgotten all about them. That box has been moved. Those
photographs belong in my safe.”
“Who moved them?” I whisper.
He swallows. “There’s only one person who could have done that.”
“Oh. Who? And what do you mean, ‘it’s not what I think’?”
He sighs and tilts his head to one side, and I think he’s embarrassed. So he should be! My
subconscious snarls.
“This is going to sound cold, but—they’re an insurance policy,” he whispers steeling himself for
my response.
“Insurance policy?”
“Against exposure.”
The penny drops and rattles uncomfortably round and round in my empty head.
“Oh,” I murmur, because I can’t think of what else to say. I close my eyes. This is it. This is Fifty
Shades of Fucked-Up, right here, right now. “Yes. You’re right,” I mutter. “That does sound cold.” I
stand to clear our dishes. I don’t want to know any more.
“Ana.”
“Do they know? The girls... the subs?”
He frowns. “Of course they know.”
Oh, well, that’s something. He reaches out, grabbing me and pulling me to him.
“Those photos are supposed to be in the safe. They’re not for recreational use.” He stops. “Maybe
they were when they were taken originally. But—” He stops, imploring me. “They don’t mean
anything.”
“Who put them in your closet?”
“It could only have been Leila.”
“She knows your safe combination?”
He shrugs. “It wouldn’t surprise me. It’s a very long combination, and I use it so rarely. It’s the
one number I have written down and haven’t changed.” He shakes his head. “I wonder what else she
knows and if she’s taken anything else out of there.” He frowns, then turns his attention back to me.
“Look, I’ll destroy the photos. Now, if you like.”
“They’re your photos, Christian. Do with them as you wish,” I mutter.
“Don’t be like that,” he says, taking my head in his hands and holding my gaze to his. “I don’t
want that life. I want our life, together.”
Holy cow. How does he know that beneath my horror about these photos is the fact that I’m
paranoid?
“Ana, I thought we exorcised all those ghosts this morning. I feel that way. Don’t you?”
I blink at him, recalling our very, very pleasurable and romantic and downright dirty morning in
his playroom.
“Yes,” I smile. “Yes, I feel like that, too.”
“Good.” He leans forward and kisses me, folding me in his arms. “I’ll shred them,” he murmurs.
“And then I have to go to work. I’m sorry, baby, but I have a mountain of business to get through this
afternoon.”
“It’s cool. I have to call my mother.” I grimace. “Then I want to do some shopping and bake you
a cake.”He grins and his eyes light up like a small boy’s.
“A cake?”
I nod.
“A chocolate cake?”
“You want a chocolate cake?” His grin is infectious.
He nods.
“I’ll see what I can do, Mr. Grey.”
He kisses me once more.
Carla is stunned into silence.
“Mom, say something.”
“You’re not pregnant, are you, Ana?” she whispers in horror.
“No, no, no, nothing like that.” Disappointment slices through my heart, and I’m saddened that
she would think that of me. But then I remember with an ever-sinking feeling that she was pregnant
with me when she married my father.
“I’m sorry, darling. This is just so sudden. I mean, Christian is quite a catch, but you’re so young,
and you should see a little of the world.”
“Mom, can’t you just be happy for me? I love him.”
“Darling, I just need to get used to the idea. It’s a shock. I could tell in Georgia that there was
something very special between you two, but marriage...?”
In Georgia he wanted me to be his submissive, but I won’t tell her that.
“Have you set a date?”
“No.”
“I wish your father was alive,” she whispers. Oh no... not this. Not this, now.
“I know, Mom. I would have liked to know him, too.”
“He only held you once, and he was so proud. He thought you were the most beautiful girl in the
world.” Her voice is a deathly hush as the familiar tale is retold... again. She will be in tears next.
“I know, Mom.”
“And then he died.” She sniffs, and I know this has set her off as it does every time.
“Mom,” I whisper, wanting to reach down the phone and hold her.
“I’m a silly old woman,” she murmurs and she sniffs again. “Of course I am happy for you,
darling. Does Ray know?” she adds, and she seems to have recovered her equilibrium.
“Christian’s just asked him.”
“Oh, that’s sweet. Good.” She sounds melancholic, but she’s making an effort.
“Yes, it was,” I murmur.
“Ana, darling, I love you so much. I am happy for you. And you must both visit.”
“Yes, Mom. I love you, too.”
“Bob is calling me, I have to go. Let me have a date. We need to plan... are you having a big
wedding?”
Big wedding, crap. I haven’t even thought about that. Big wedding? No. I don’t want a big
wedding.
“I don’t know yet. As soon as I do, I’ll call.”
“Good. You take care now and be safe. You two need to have some fun... plenty of time for kids
later.”Kids! Hmm... and there it is again—a not-so-veiled reference to the fact that she had me so early.
“Mom, I didn’t really ruin your life, did I?”
She gasps. “Oh no, Ana, never think that. You were the best thing that ever happened to your
father and me. I just wish he was here to see you so grown up and getting married.” She’s wistful and
maudlin again.
“I wish that, too.” I shake my head thinking about my mythical father. “Mom, I’ll let you go. I’ll
call soon.”
“Love you, darling.”
“Me, too, Mom. Good-bye.”
Christian’s kitchen is a dream to work in. For a man who knows nothing about cooking, he seems to
have everything. I suspect Mrs. Jones loves to cook, too. The only thing I need is some high quality
chocolate for the frosting. I leave the two halves of the cake on a cooling rack, grab my purse, and pop
my head around Christian’s study door. He’s concentrating on his computer screen. He looks up and
smiles at me.
“I’m just heading to the store to pick up some ingredients.”
“Okay.” He frowns at me.
“What?”
“You going to put some jeans on or something?”
Oh, come on. “Christian, they’re just legs.”
He gazes at me, unamused. This is going to be a fight. And it’s his birthday. I roll my eyes at
him, feeling like an errant teenager.
“What if we were at the beach?” I take a different tack.
“We’re not at the beach.”
“Would you object if we were at the beach?”
He considers this for a moment. “No,” he says simply.
I roll my eyes again and smirk at him. “Well, just imagine we are. Laters.” I turn and bolt for the
foyer. I make it to the elevator before he catches up with me. As the doors close, I wave at him,
grinning sweetly as he watches, helpless—but fortunately amused—with narrowed eyes. He shakes his
head in exasperation, then I can see him no more.
Oh, that was exciting. Adrenaline is pounding through my veins, and my heart feels like it wants
to exit my chest. But as the elevator descends, so do my spirits. Shit, what have I done?
I have a tiger by the tail. He’s going to be mad when I get back. My subconscious is glaring at me
over her half-moon glasses, a willow switch in her hand. Shit. I think about what little experience I
have with men. I’ve never lived with a man before—well, except Ray—and for some reason he
doesn’t count. He’s my dad... well, the man I consider my dad.
And now I have Christian. He’s never really lived with anyone, I think. I’ll have to ask him—if
he’s still talking to me.
But I feel strongly that I should wear what I like. I remember his rules. Yes, this must be hard for
him, but he sure as hell paid for this dress. He should have given Neimans a better brief. Nothing too
short!
This skirt isn’t that short, is it? I check in the large mirror in the lobby. Damn. Yes, it is quite
short, but I’ve made a stand now. And no doubt I’ll have to face the consequences. I wonder idly what
he’ll do, but first I need cash.I stare at my receipt from the ATM: $51,689.16. That’s fifty thousand dollars too much! Anastasia,
you’re going to have to learn to be rich, too, if you say yes. And so it begins. I take my paltry fifty
dollars and make my way to the store.
I head straight to the kitchen when I arrive back, and I can’t help feeling a frisson of alarm. Christian
is still in his study. Jeez, that’s most of the afternoon. I decide my best option is to face him and see
how much damage I’ve done. I peek cautiously around his study door. He’s on the phone, staring out
the window.
“And the Eurocopter specialist is due Monday afternoon?... Good. Just keep me informed. Tell
them that I’ll need their initial findings either Monday evening or Tuesday morning.” He hangs up and
swivels his chair round, but stills when he sees me, his expression impassive.
“Hi,” I whisper. He says nothing, and my heart free-falls into my stomach. Gingerly I walk into
his study and around his desk to where he’s sitting. He still says nothing, his eyes never leaving mine.
I stand in front of him, feeling fifty shades of foolish.
“I’m back. Are you mad at me?”
He sighs, reaches out for my hand, and pulls me into his lap, folding his arms around me. He
buries his nose in my hair.
“Yes,” he says.
“I’m sorry. I don’t know what came over me.” I curl up in his lap inhaling his heavenly Christian
smell, feeling safe regardless of the fact that he’s mad.
“Me neither. Wear what you like,” he murmurs. He runs his hand up my bare leg to my thigh.
“Besides, this dress has its advantages.” He bends to kiss me, and as our lips touch, passion or lust or a
deep-seated need to make amends lances through me and desire flares in my blood. I seize his head in
my hands, fisting my fingers in his hair. He groans as his body responds, and he hungrily nips at my
lower lip—my throat, my ear, his tongue invading my mouth, and before I’m even aware of it he’s
unzipping his pants, pulling me astride his lap, and sinking into me. I grasp the back of the chair, my
feet just touching the ground... and we start to move.
“I like your version of sorry,” he breathes into my hair.
“And I like yours,” I giggle, snuggling against his chest. “Have you finished?”
“Christ, Ana, you want more?”
“No! Your work.”
“I’ll be done in about half an hour. I heard your message on my voicemail.”
“From yesterday.”
“You sounded worried.”
I hug him tightly.
“I was. It’s not like you not to respond.”
He kisses my hair.
“Your cake should be ready in half an hour.” I smile at him and climb off his lap.
“Looking forward to it. It smelled delicious, evocative even, while it was baking.”
I smile shyly down at him, feeling a little self-conscious, and he mirrors my expression. Jeez, are
we really so different? Perhaps it’s his early memories of baking. Leaning down, I plant a swift kisson the corner of his mouth and make my way back to the kitchen.
I am all prepared when I hear him come out of his study, and I light the solitary gold candle on his
cake. He gives me an ear-splitting grin as he saunters toward me, and I softly sing Happy Birthday to
him. Then he leans over and blows it out, closing his eyes.
“I’ve made my wish,” he says as he opens them again, and for some reason his look makes me
flush.
“The frosting is still soft. I hope you like it.”
“I can’t wait to taste it, Anastasia,” he murmurs, and he makes that sound so rude. I cut us each a
slice, and we dig in with small pastry forks.
“Mmm,” he groans in appreciation. “This is why I want to marry you.”
And I laugh with relief... he likes it.
“Ready to face my family?” Christian switches the R8 ignition off. We’re parked in his parents’
driveway.
“Yes. Are you going to tell them?”
“Of course. I’m looking forward to seeing their reactions.” He smiles wickedly at me and climbs
out of the car.
It is seven thirty, and though it’s been a warm day, there’s a cool evening breeze blowing off the
bay. I pull my wrap around me as I step out of the car. I’m wearing an emerald green cocktail dress I
found this morning while I was rummaging through the closet. It has a wide matching belt. Christian
takes my hand, and we head to the front door. Carrick opens it wide before he can knock.
“Christian, hello. Happy birthday, son.” He takes Christian’s proffered hand but pulls him into a
brief hug, surprising him.
“Er... thanks, Dad.”
“Ana, how lovely to see you again.” He hugs me, too, and we follow him into the house.
Before we can set foot in the living room, Kate comes barreling down the hallway toward the two
of us. She looks furious.
Oh no!
“You two! I want to talk to you.” She snarls in her you-better-not-fucking-mess-with-me voice. I
glance nervously at Christian, who shrugs and decides to humor her as we follow her into the dining
room, leaving Carrick bemused on the threshold of the living room. She shuts the door and turns on
me.
“What the fuck is this?” she hisses and waves a piece of paper at me. Completely at a loss, I take
it from her and scan it quickly. My mouth dries. Holy shit. It’s my e-mail response to Christian,
discussing the contract.All the color drains from my face as my blood turns to ice and fear lances through my body.
Instinctively I step between her and Christian.
“What is it?” Christian murmurs, his tone wary.
I ignore him. I cannot believe Kate is doing this.
“Kate! This is nothing to do with you.” I glare venomously at her, anger replacing my fear. How
dare she do this? Not now, not today. Not on Christian’s birthday. Surprised by my response, she
blinks at me, green eyes wide.
“Ana, what is it?” Christian says again, his tone more menacing.
“Christian, would you just go, please?” I ask him.
“No. Show me.” He holds out his hand, and I know he’s not to be argued with—his voice is cold
and hard. Reluctantly I give him the e-mail.
“What’s he done to you?” Kate asks, ignoring Christian. She looks so apprehensive. I flush as a
myriad of erotic images flit quickly across my mind.
“That’s none of your business, Kate.” I can’t keep the exasperation out of my voice.
“Where did you get this?” Christian asks, his head cocked to one side, his face expressionless, but
his voice... so menacingly soft. Kate flushes.
“That’s irrelevant.” At his stony glare, she hastily continues. “It was in the pocket of a jacket—
which I assume is yours—that I found on the back of Ana’s bedroom door.” Faced with Christian’s
burning gray gaze, Kate’s steeliness slips a little, but she seems to recover and scowls at him.
She’s a beacon of hostility in a slinky, bright red dress. She looks magnificent. But what the hell
is she going through my clothes for? It’s usually the other way round.
“Have you told anyone?” Christian’s voice is like a silk glove.
“No! Of course not,” Kate snaps, affronted. Christian nods and appears to relax. He turns and
heads toward the fireplace. Wordlessly Kate and I watch as he picks up a lighter from the mantelpiece,
sets fire to the e-mail, and releases it, letting it float afire slowly into the grate until it is no more. The
silence in the room is oppressive.
“Not even Elliot?” I ask, turning my attention back to Kate.
“No one,” Kate says emphatically, and for the first time she looks puzzled and hurt. “I just want
to know you’re okay, Ana,” she whispers.“I’m fine, Kate. More than fine. Please, Christian and I are good, really good—this is old news.
Please ignore it.”
“Ignore it?” she says. “How can I ignore that? What’s he done to you?” And her green eyes are so
full of heartfelt concern.
“He hasn’t done anything to me, Kate. Honestly—I’m good.”
She blinks at me.
“Really?” she asks.
Christian wraps an arm around me and draws me close, not taking his eyes off Kate.
“Ana has consented to be my wife, Katherine,” he says quietly.
“Wife!” Kate squeaks, her eyes widening in disbelief.
“We’re getting married. We’re going to announce our engagement this evening,” he says.
“Oh!” Kate gapes at me. She’s stunned. “I leave you alone for sixteen days, and this happens? It’s
very sudden. So yesterday, when I said—” She gazes at me, lost. “Where does that e-mail fit into all
this?”
“It doesn’t, Kate. Forget it—please. I love him and he loves me. Don’t do this. Don’t ruin his
party and our night,” I whisper. She blinks and unexpectedly her eyes are shining with tears.
“No. Of course I won’t. You’re okay?” She wants reassurance.
“I’ve never been happier,” I whisper. She reaches forward and grabs my hand regardless of
Christian’s arm wrapped around me.
“You really are okay?” she asks hopefully.
“Yes.” I grin at her, my joy returning. She’s back onside. She smiles at me, my happiness
reflecting back on her. I step out of Christian’s hold, and she hugs me suddenly.
“Oh, Ana—I was so worried when I read this. I didn’t know what to think. Will you explain it to
me?” she whispers.
“One day, not now.”
“Good. I won’t tell anyone. I love you so much, Ana, like my own sister. I just thought... I didn’t
know what to think. I’m sorry. If you’re happy, then I’m happy.” She looks directly at Christian and
repeats her apology. He nods at her, his eyes glacial, and his expression does not change. Oh shit, he’s
still mad.
“I really am sorry. You’re right, it’s none of my business,” she whispers to me.
There’s a knock on the door that startles Kate and I apart. Grace pokes her head around.
“Everything okay, darling?” she asks Christian.
“Everything’s fine, Mrs. Grey,” Kate says immediately.
“Fine, Mom,” Christian says.
“Good.” Grace enters. “Then you won’t mind if I give my son a birthday hug.” She beams at both
of us. He hugs her tightly and thaws immediately.
“Happy birthday, darling,” she says softly, closing her eyes in his embrace. “I’m so glad you’re
still with us.”
“Mom, I’m fine.” Christian smiles down at her. She pulls back, looks at him closely, and grins.
“I’m so happy for you,” she says and caresses his face.
He grins at her—his thousand megawatt smile.
She knows! When did he tell her?
“Well, kids, if you’ve all finished your tête-à-tête, there’s a throng of people here to check that
you really are in one piece, Christian, and to wish you a happy birthday.”
“I’ll be right there.”
Grace glances anxiously at Kate and me and seems reassured by our smiles. She winks at me as
she holds the door open for us. Christian holds out his hand to me and I take it.“Christian, I really do apologize,” Kate says humbly. Humble Kate is something to behold.
Christian nods at her, and we follow her out.
In the hallway, I gaze anxiously up at Christian. “Does your mother know about us?”
“Yes.”
“Oh.” And to think our evening could have been derailed by the tenacious Miss Kavanagh. I
shudder at the thought—the ramifications of Christian’s lifestyle revealed to all. Holy cow.
“Well, that was an interesting start to the evening.” I smile sweetly at him. He glances down at
me—and it’s back, his amused look. Thank heavens.
“As ever, Miss Steele, you have a gift for understatement.” He raises my hand to his lips and
kisses my knuckles as we walk into the living room to a sudden, spontaneous, and deafening round of
applause.
Crap. How many people are here?
I scan the room quickly: all the Greys, Ethan with Mia, Dr. Flynn and his wife, I assume. There’s
Mac from the boat, a tall, handsome African American—I remember seeing him in Christian’s office
the first time I met Christian—Mia’s bitchy friend Lily, two women I don’t recognize at all, and... Oh
no. My heart sinks. That woman... Mrs. Robinson.
Gretchen materializes with a tray of champagne. She’s in a low-cut black dress, no pigtails but an
updo, flushing and fluttering her eyelashes at Christian. The applause dies down, and Christian
squeezes my hand as all eyes turn to him expectantly.
“Thank you, everyone. Looks like I’ll need one of these.” He grabs two drinks off Gretchen’s tray
and gives her a brief smile. I think Gretchen’s going to expire or swoon. He hands a glass to me.
Christian raises his glass to the rest of the room, and immediately everyone surges forward.
Leading the charge is the evil woman in black. Does she ever wear any other color?
“Christian, I was so worried.” Elena gives him a brief hug and kisses both his cheeks. He doesn’t
let me go despite the fact I try to free my hand.
“I’m good, Elena,” Christian mutters coolly.
“Why didn’t you call me?” Her plea is desperate, her eyes searching his.
“I’ve been busy.”
“Didn’t you get my messages?”
Christian shifts uncomfortably and pulls me closer, putting his arm around me. His face remains
impassive as he regards Elena. She can no longer ignore me, so she nods politely in my direction.
“Ana,” she purrs. “You look lovely, dear.”
“Elena,” I purr back. “Thank you.”
I catch Grace’s eye. She frowns, watching the three of us.
“Elena, I need to make an announcement,” Christian says, eyeing her dispassionately.
Her clear blue eyes cloud. “Of course.” She fakes a smile and steps back.
“Everyone,” Christian calls. He waits for a moment until the buzz in the room dies down and all
eyes are once more on him.
“Thank you for coming today. I have to say I was expecting a quiet family dinner, so this is a
pleasant surprise.” He stares pointedly at Mia, who grins and gives him a little wave. Christian shakes
his head in exasperation and continues.
“Ros and I”—he acknowledges the red-haired woman standing nearby with a small bubbly blonde
—“we had a close call yesterday.”
Oh, that’s the Ros that works with him. She grins and raises her glass to him. He nods back at her.
“So I’m especially glad to be here today to share with all of you my very good news. This
beautiful woman”—he glances down at me—“Miss Anastasia Rose Steele, has consented to be mywife, and I’d like you to be the first to know.”
There are general gasps of astonishment, the odd cheer, and then a round of applause! Jeez—this
is really happening. I think I am the color of Kate’s dress. Christian grasps my chin, lifts my lips to
his, and kisses me quickly.
“You’ll soon be mine.”
“I am already,” I whisper.
“Legally,” he mouths at me and gives me a wicked grin.
Lily, who is standing beside Mia, looks crestfallen; Gretchen looks like she’s eaten something
nasty and bitter. As I glance anxiously around at the assembled crowd, I catch sight of Elena. Her
mouth is open. She’s stunned—horrified even, and I can’t help a small but intense feeling of
satisfaction to see her dumbstruck. What the hell is she doing here, anyway?
Carrick and Grace interrupt my uncharitable thoughts, and soon I am being hugged and kissed
and passed around by all the Greys.
“Oh, Ana—I am so delighted you’re going to be family,” Grace gushes. “The change in
Christian... He’s... happy. I am so thankful to you.” I blush, embarrassed by her exuberance but
secretly delighted, too.
“Where is the ring?” exclaims Mia as she embraces me.
“Um...” A ring! Jeez. I hadn’t even thought about a ring. I glance anxiously up at Christian.
“We’re going to choose one together.” Christian glowers at her.
“Oh, don’t look at me like that, Grey!” she scolds him, then wraps her arms around him. “I’m so
thrilled for you, Christian,” she says. She’s the only person I know who is not intimidated by the Grey
glower. It has me quailing... Well, it certainly used to.
“When will you get married? Have you set a date?” She beams up at Christian.
He shakes his head, his exasperation palpable. “No idea, and no we haven’t. Ana and I need to
discuss all that,” he says irritably.
“I hope you have a big wedding—here,” she beams enthusiastically, ignoring his caustic tone.
“We’ll probably fly to Vegas tomorrow,” he growls at her, and he’s rewarded with a full-on Mia
Grey pouty grimace. Rolling his eyes, he turns to Elliot, who gives him his second bear hug in as
many days.
“Way to go, bro.” He claps Christian’s back.
The response from the room is overwhelming, and it’s a few minutes before I find myself back
beside Christian with Dr. Flynn. Elena seems to have disappeared, and Gretchen is sullenly refilling
champagne glasses.
Beside Dr. Flynn is a striking young woman with long, dark, almost black hair, cleavage, and
lovely hazel eyes.
“Christian,” says Flynn, holding out his hand. Christian shakes it gladly.
“John. Rhian.” He kisses the dark-haired woman on her cheek. She’s petite and pretty.
“Glad you’re still with us, Christian. My life would be most dull—and penurious—without you.”
Christian smirks.
“John!” Rhian scolds, much to Christian’s amusement.
“Rhian, this is Anastasia, my fiancée. Ana, this is John’s wife.”
“Delighted to meet the woman who has finally captured Christian’s heart.” Rhian smiles kindly
at me.
“Thank you,” I mutter, embarrassed again.
“That was one googly you bowled there, Christian,” Dr. Flynn shakes his head in amused
disbelief. Christian frowns at him.
“John—you and your cricket metaphors.” Rhian rolls her eyes. “Congratulations to the pair ofyou and happy birthday, Christian. What a wonderful birthday present.” She smiles broadly at me.
I had no idea Dr. Flynn would be here, or Elena. It’s a shock, and I rack my brains to see if I have
anything to ask him, but a birthday party hardly seems the appropriate venue for a psychiatric consult.
For a few minutes, we make small talk. Rhian is a stay-at-home mom with two young boys. I
deduce that she is the reason Dr. Flynn practices in the US.
“She’s good, Christian, responding well to treatment. Another couple of weeks and we can
consider an out-patient program.” Dr. Flynn’s and Christian’s voices are low, but I can’t help listening
in, rather rudely tuning out Rhian.
“So it’s all play-dates and diapers at the moment...”
“That must take up your time.” I flush, turning my attention back to Rhian, who laughs sweetly. I
know Christian and Flynn are discussing Leila.
“Ask her something for me,” Christian murmurs.
“So what do you do, Anastasia?”
“Ana, please. I work in publishing.”
Christian and Dr. Flynn lower their voices further; it’s so frustrating. But they stop when we’re
joined by the two women I didn’t recognize earlier—Ros and the bubbly blonde whom Christian
introduces as her partner, Gwen.
Ros is charming, and I soon discover they live almost opposite Escala. She is full of praise for
Christian’s piloting skills. It was her first time in Charlie Tango, and she says she wouldn’t hesitate to
go again. She’s one of the few women I’ve met who isn’t dazzled by him... well, the reason is obvious.
Gwen is giggly with a wry sense of humor, and Christian seems extraordinarily at ease with both
of them. He knows them well. They don’t discuss work, but I can tell that Ros is one smart woman
who can easily keep up with him. She also has a great, throaty, too-many-cigarettes laugh.
Grace interrupts our leisurely conversation to inform everyone that dinner is being served buffet-
style in the Grey kitchen. Slowly the guests make their way toward the back of the house.
Mia collars me in the hallway. In her pale pink, frothy babydoll dress and killer heels, she towers
over me like a Christmas tree fairy. She’s holding two cocktail glasses.
“Ana,” she hisses conspiratorially. I glance up at Christian, who releases me with a best-of-luck-
I-find-her-impossible-to-deal-with-too look, and I sneak into the dining room with her.
“Here,” she says mischievously. “This is one of my dad’s special lemon martinis—much nicer
than champagne.” She hands me a glass and watches anxiously while I take a tentative sip.
“Hmm... delicious. But strong.” What does she want? Is she trying to get me drunk?
“Ana, I need some advice. And I can’t ask Lily—she’s so judgmental about everything.” Mia
rolls her eyes then grins at me. “She is so jealous of you. I think she was hoping one day that she and
Christian might get together.” Mia bursts out laughing at the absurdity, and I quail inside.
This is something I will have to contend with for a long time—other women wanting my man. I
push the unwelcome thought out of my head and distract myself with the matter in hand. I take
another sip of my martini.
“I’ll try and help. Fire away.”
“As you know, Ethan and I met recently, thanks to you.” She beams at me.
“Yes.” Where the hell is she going with this?
“Ana—he doesn’t want to date me.” She pouts.
“Oh.” I blink at her, stunned, and I think, Maybe he’s just not that into you.
“Look, that sounded all wrong. He doesn’t want to date because his sister is going out with my
brother. You know—he thinks it’s all kind of incestuous. But I know he likes me. What can I do?”
“Oh, I see,” I mutter, trying to buy myself some time. What can I say? “Can you agree to be
friends and give it some time? I mean you’ve only just met him.”She cocks her eyebrow and I flush.
“Look, I know I’ve only really just met Christian but...” I scowl at her not sure what I want to
say. “Mia, this is something you and Ethan have to work out together. I would try the friendship
route.”
Mia grins.
“You’ve learned that look from Christian.”
I flush. “If you want advice, ask Kate. She may have some insight as to how her brother feels.”
“You think?” Mia asks.
“Yes.” I smile encouragingly.
“Cool. Thanks, Ana.” She gives me another hug and scuttles excitedly—and impressively, given
her high heels—to the door, no doubt off to bother Kate. I take another sip of my martini, and I’m
about to follow her when I am stopped in my tracks.
Elena breezes into the room, her face taut, set in grim, angry determination. She closes the door
quietly behind her and scowls at me.
Oh crap.
“Ana,” she sneers.
I summon all my self-possession, slightly fuzzy from two glasses of champagne and the lethal
cocktail I hold in my hand. I think the blood has drained from my face, but I marshal both my
subconscious and my inner goddess in order to appear as calm and as unflappable as I can.
“Elena.” My voice is small, but steady—despite my dry mouth. Why does this woman freak me
out so much? And what does she want now?
“I would offer you my heartfelt congratulations, but I think that would be inappropriate.” Her
piercing cold blue eyes stare frostily into mine, filled with loathing.
“I neither need nor want your congratulations, Elena. I’m surprised and disappointed to see you
here.”
She arches an eyebrow. I think she’s impressed.
“I wouldn’t have thought of you as a worthy adversary, Anastasia. But you surprise me at every
turn.”
“I haven’t thought of you at all,” I lie, coolly. Christian would be proud. “Now if you’ll excuse
me, I have much better things to do than waste my time with you.”
“Not so fast, missy,” she hisses, leaning against the door, effectively blocking it. “What on earth
do you think you’re doing, consenting to marry Christian? If you think for one minute you can make
him happy, you’re very much mistaken.”
“What I’m consenting to do with Christian is none of your concern.” I smile with sarcastic
sweetness. She ignores me.
“He has needs—needs you cannot possibly begin to satisfy,” she gloats.
“What do you know of his needs?” I snarl. My sense of indignation flares brightly, burning inside
me as adrenaline surges through my body. How dare this fucking bitch preach to me? “You’re nothing
but a sick child molester, and if it was up to me, I’d toss you into the seventh circle of hell and walk
away smiling. Now get out of my way—or do I have to make you?”
“You’re making a big mistake here, lady.” She shakes a long, skinny, finely manicured finger at
me. “How dare you judge our lifestyle? You know nothing, and you have no idea what you’re getting
yourself into. And if you think he’s going to be happy with a mousy little gold-digger like you...”
That’s it! I throw the rest of my lemon martini in her face, drenching her.
“Don’t you dare tell me what I’m getting myself into!” I shout at her. “When will you learn? It’s
none of your goddamned business!”
She gapes at me, horror struck, wiping the sticky drink off her face. I think she’s about to lunge atme, but she’s suddenly shunted forward as the door opens.
Christian is standing in the doorway. It takes him a nanosecond to assess the situation—me ashen
and shaking, her soaked and livid. His lovely face darkens and contorts with anger as he comes to
stand between us.
“What the fuck are you doing, Elena?” he says, his voice glacial and laced with menace.
She blinks up at him. “She’s not right for you, Christian,” she whispers.
“What?” he shouts, startling both of us. I can’t see his face but his whole body has tensed, and he
radiates animosity.
“How the fuck do you know what’s right for me?”
“You have needs, Christian,” she says her voice softer.
“I’ve told you before—this is none of your fucking business,” he roars. Oh crap—Very Angry
Christian has reared his not-so-ugly head. People are going to hear.
“What is this?” He pauses, glaring at her. “Do you think it’s you? You? You think you’re right
for me?” His voice is softer but drips contempt, and suddenly I don’t want to be here. I don’t want to
witness this intimate encounter. I’m intruding. But I’m stuck—my limbs unwilling to move.
Elena swallows and seems to draw herself upright. Her stance changes subtly, becomes more
commanding, and she steps toward him.
“I was the best thing that ever happened to you,” she hisses arrogantly at him. “Look at you now.
One of the richest, most successful, entrepreneurs in the US—controlled, driven—you need nothing.
You are master of your universe.”
He steps back as if he’s been struck and gapes at her in outraged disbelief.
“You loved it, Christian, don’t try and kid yourself. You were on the road to self-destruction, and
I saved you from that, saved you from a life behind bars. Believe me, baby, that’s where you would
have ended up. I taught you everything you know, everything you need.”
Christian blanches, staring at her in horror. When he speaks, his voice is low and incredulous.
“You taught me how to fuck, Elena. But it’s empty, like you. No wonder Linc left.”
Bile rises in my mouth. I should not be here. But I’m frozen to the spot, morbidly fascinated as
they eviscerate each other.
“You never once held me,” Christian whispers. “You never once said you loved me.”
She narrows her eyes. “Love is for fools, Christian.”
“Get out of my house.” Grace’s implacable, furious voice startles us. Three heads swing rapidly
to where Grace stands on the threshold of the room. She is glaring at Elena, who pales beneath her St.
Tropez tan.
Time seems suspended as we collectively take a deep gasping breath, and Grace stalks
deliberately into the room. Her eyes blaze with fury, never once leaving Elena, until she stands before
her. Elena’s eyes widen in alarm, and Grace slaps her hard across the face, the sound of the impact
resounding off the walls of the dining room.
“Take your filthy paws off my son, you whore, and get out of my house—now!” she hisses
through gritted teeth.
Elena clutches her reddening cheek and stares in horror for a moment, shocked and blinking at
Grace. Then she hurries from the room, not bothering to close the door behind her.
Grace turns slowly to face Christian and a tense silence settles like a thick blanket over us as
Christian and Grace stare at each other. After a beat, Grace speaks.
“Ana, before I hand him over to you, would you mind giving me a minute or two alone with my
son?” Her voice is quiet, husky, but oh-so-strong.
“Of course,” I whisper, and exit as quickly as I can, glancing anxiously over my shoulder. But
neither of them look at me as I leave. They continue to stare at each other, their unspokencommunication blaringly loud.
In the hallway, I am momentarily lost. My heart pounds and my blood races through my veins... I
feel panicked and out of my depth. Holy fuck, that was heavy and now Grace knows. Crap. I can’t
think what she’s going to say to Christian, and I know it’s wrong, I know, but I lean against the door
trying to listen.
“How long, Christian?” Grace’s voice is soft. I can barely hear her.
I cannot hear his reply.
“How old were you?” Her voice is more insistent. “Tell me. How old were you when this all
started?” Again I can’t hear Christian.
“Everything okay, Ana?” Ros interrupts me.
“Yes. Fine. Thank you. I...”
Ros smiles. “I’m just going to fetch my purse. I need a cigarette.”
For a brief moment, I contemplate joining her.
“I’m off to the bathroom.” I need to gather my wits and my thoughts, to process what I’ve just
witnessed and heard. Upstairs seems the safest place to be on my own. I watch Ros stroll into the
drawing room, and I bolt two stairs at a time to the second floor, then up to the third. There’s only one
place I want to be.
I open the door to Christian’s childhood bedroom and shut it behind me, taking a huge gulping
breath. Heading for his bed, I flop onto it and stare at the plain white ceiling.
Holy cow. That has to be, without doubt, one of the most excruciating confrontations I’ve ever
had to endure, and now I feel numb. My fiancé and his ex-lover—no would-be bride should have to
see that. Having said that, part of me is glad she’s revealed her true self, and that I was there to bear
witness.
My thoughts turn to Grace. Poor Grace, to hear all that. I clutch one of Christian’s pillows. She’ll
have overheard that Christian and Elena had an affair—but not the nature of it. Thank heavens. I
groan.
What am I doing? Perhaps the evil witch had a point.
No, I refuse to believe that. She’s so cold and cruel. I shake my head. She’s wrong. I am right for
Christian. I am what he needs. And in a moment of stunning clarity, I don’t question how he’s lived
his life until recently—but why. His reasons for doing what he’s done to countless girls—I don’t even
want to know how many. The how isn’t wrong. They were all adults. They were all—how did Flynn
put it?—in safe, sane, consensual relationships. It’s the why. The why was wrong. The why was from
his place of darkness.
I close my eyes and drape my arm over them. But now he’s moved on, left it behind, and we are
both in the light. I’m dazzled by him and he by me. We can guide each other. A thought occurs to me.
Shit! A gnawing, insidious thought and I’m in the one place where I can lay this ghost to rest. I sit up.
Yes, I must do this.
Shakily I get to my feet, kick off my shoes, walk over to his desk, and examine the pin board
above it. The photos of young Christian are all still there—more poignant than ever as I think of the
spectacle I’ve just witnessed between him and Mrs. Robinson. And there in the corner is the small
black and white photo—his mother, the crack whore.
I switch on the desk lamp and focus the light on her picture. I don’t even know her name. She
looks so much like him but younger and sadder and all I feel, looking at her sorrowful face, is
compassion. I try to see the similarities between her face and mine. I squint at the picture, getting
really, really close, and see none. Except maybe our hair, but I think hers is lighter than mine. I don’t
look like her at all. It’s a relief.My subconscious tuts at me, arms crossed, glaring over her half-moon glasses. Why are you
torturing yourself? You’ve said yes. You’ve made your bed. I purse my lips at her. Yes I have, gladly
so. I want to lie in that bed with Christian for the rest of my life. My inner goddess, sitting in the lotus
position, smiles serenely. Yes. I’ve made the right decision.
I must find him—Christian will be worried. I have no idea how long I’ve been in his room; he’ll
think that I’ve fled. I roll my eyes as I contemplate his overreaction. I hope that he and Grace have
finished. I shudder to think what else she might have said to him.
I meet Christian as he climbs the stairs to the second floor, looking for me. His face is strained
and weary—not the carefree Fifty I arrived with. As I stand on the landing, he stops on the top stair so
that we are eye to eye.
“Hi,” he says cautiously.
“Hi,” I answer warily.
“I was worried—”
“I know,” I interrupt him. “I’m sorry—I couldn’t face the festivities. I just had to get away, you
know. To think.” Reaching up, I caress his face. He closes his eyes and leans his face into my hand.
“And you thought you’d do that in my room?”
“Yes.”
He reaches for my hand and pulls me into an embrace, and I go willingly into his arms, my
favorite place in the whole world. He smells of fresh laundry, body wash, and Christian—the most
calming and arousing scent on the planet. He inhales with his nose in my hair.
“I’m sorry you had to endure all that.”
“It’s not your fault, Christian. Why was she here?” He gazes down at me, and his mouth curls
apologetically.
“She’s a family friend.”
I try not to react. “Not any more. How’s your mom?”
“Mom is pretty fucking mad at me right now. I’m really glad you’re here, and that we’re in the
middle of a party. Otherwise I might be breathing my last.”
“That bad, huh?”
He nods, his eyes serious, and I sense his bewilderment at her reaction.
“Can you blame her?” My voice is quiet, cajoling.
He hugs me tightly and he seems uncertain, processing his thoughts.
Finally he answers. “No.”
Whoa! Breakthrough. “Can we sit?” I ask.
“Sure. Here?”
I nod and we both sit at the top of the stairs.
“So, how do you feel?” I ask, anxiously clutching his hand and gazing at his sad, serious face.
He sighs.
“I feel liberated.” He shrugs, then beams—a glorious, carefree Christian smile, and the weariness
and strain present moments ago have vanished.
“Really?” I beam back. Wow, I’d crawl over broken glass for that smile.
“Our business relationship is over. Done.”
I frown at him. “Will you liquidate the salon business?”
He snorts. “I’m not that vindictive, Anastasia,” he admonishes me. “No. I’ll gift them to her. I’ll
talk to my lawyer Monday. I owe her that much.”
I arch an eyebrow at him. “No more Mrs. Robinson?” His mouth twists in amusement and he
shakes his head.
“Gone.”I grin.
“I’m sorry you lost a friend.”
He shrugs then smirks. “Are you?”
“No,” I confess, flushing.
“Come.” He stands and offers me his hand. “Let’s join the party in our honor. I might even get
drunk.”
“Do you get drunk?” I ask as I take his hand.
“Not since I was a wild teenager.” We walk down the stairs.
“Have you eaten?” he asks.
Ohcrap.
“No.”
“Well you should. From the look and smell of Elena, that was one of my father’s lethal cocktails
you threw over her.” He gazes at me, trying and failing to keep the amusement off his face.
“Christian, I—”
He holds up his hand.
“No arguing, Anastasia. If you’re going to drink—and throw alcohol over my exes—you need to
eat. It’s rule number one. I believe we’ve already had that discussion after our first night together.”
Oh yes. The Heathman.
Back in the hallway, he pauses to caress my face, his fingers skimming my jaw.
“I lay awake for hours and watched you sleep,” he murmurs. “I might have loved you even then.”
Oh.
He leans down and kisses me softly, and I melt everywhere, all the tension of the last hour or so
seeping languidly from my body.
“Eat,” he whispers.
“Okay,” I acquiesce because right now I’d probably do anything for him. Taking my hand, he
leads me toward the kitchen where the party is in full swing.
“Goodnight, John, Rhian.”
“Congratulations again, Ana. You two will be just fine.” Dr. Flynn smiles kindly at us, standing
arm in arm in the hallway as he and Rhian take their leave.
“Goodnight.”
Christian closes the door and shakes his head. He gazes down at me, his eyes suddenly bright
with excitement.
What’s this?
“Just the family left. I think my mother has had too much to drink.” Grace is singing karaoke on
some game console in the family room. Kate and Mia are giving her a run for her money.
“Do you blame her?” I smirk at him, trying to keep the atmosphere between us light. I succeed.
“Are you smirking at me, Miss Steele?”
“I am.”
“It’s been quite a day.”
“Christian, recently, every day with you has been quite a day.” My voice is sardonic.
He shakes his head. “Fair point well made, Miss Steele. Come—I want to show you something.”
Taking my hand, he leads me through the house to the kitchen where Carrick, Ethan, and Elliot are
talking Mariners, drinking the last of the cocktails, and eating leftovers.“Off for a stroll?” Elliot teases suggestively as we make our way through the French doors.
Christian ignores him. Carrick frowns at Elliot, shaking his head in a silent rebuke.
As we make our way up the steps to the lawn, I take off my shoes. The half-moon shines brightly
over the bay. It’s brilliant, casting everything in myriad of shades of gray as the lights of Seattle
twinkle sweetly in the distance. The lights of the boathouse are on, a soft glowing beacon in the cool
cast of the moon.
“Christian, I’d like to go to church tomorrow.”
“Oh?”
“I prayed you’d come back alive and you did. It’s the least I could do.”
“Okay.”
We wander hand in hand in a relaxed silence for a few moments. Then something occurs to me.
“Where are you going to put the photos José took of me?”
“I thought we might put them in the new house.”
“You bought it?”
He stops to stare at me, and his voice full of concern. “Yes. I thought you liked it.”
“I do. When did you buy it?”
“Yesterday morning. Now we need to decide what to do with it,” he murmurs, relieved.
“Don’t knock it down. Please. It’s such a lovely house. It just needs some tender loving care.”
Christian glances at me and smiles. “Okay. I’ll talk to Elliot. He knows a good architect; she did
some work on my place is Aspen. He can do the remodeling.”
I snort, suddenly remembering the last time we crossed the lawn under the moonlight to the
boathouse. Oh, perhaps that’s what we’re going to do now. I grin.
“What?”
“I remember the last time you took me to the boathouse.”
Christian chuckles quietly. “Oh, that was fun. In fact...” He suddenly stops and scoops me over
his shoulder, and I squeal, though we don’t have far to go.
“You were really angry, if I remember correctly,” I gasp.
“Anastasia, I’m always really angry.”
“No you’re not.”
He swats my behind as he stops outside the wooden door. He slides me down his body back to the
ground and takes my head in his hands.
“No, not anymore.” Leaning down, he kisses me, hard. When he pulls away, I’m breathless and
desire is racing round my body.
He gazes down at me, and in the glow of the strip of light coming from inside the boathouse, I
can see he’s anxious. My anxious man, not a white knight or a dark knight, but a man—a beautiful,
not-quite-so-fucked-up man—whom I love. I reach up and caress his face, running my fingers through
his sideburns and along his jaw to his chin, then let my index finger touch his lips. He relaxes.
“I’ve something to show you in here,” he murmurs and opens the door.
The harsh light of the fluorescents illuminates the impressive motor launch in the dock, bobbing
gently on the dark water. There’s a row boat beside it.
“Come.” Christian takes my hand and leads me up the wooden stairs. Opening the door at the top,
he steps aside to let me in.
My mouth drops to the floor. The attic is unrecognizable. The room is filled with flowers... there
are flowers everywhere. Someone has created a magical bower of beautiful wild meadow flowers
mixed with glowing fairy lights and miniature lanterns that glow soft and pale round the room.
My face whips round to meet his, and he’s gazing at me, his expression unreadable. He shrugs.
“You wanted hearts and flowers,” he murmurs.I blink at him, not quite believing what I’m seeing.
“You have my heart.” And he waves toward the room.
“And here are the flowers,” I whisper, completing his sentence. “Christian, it’s lovely.” I can’t
think of what else to say. My heart is in my mouth as tears prick my eyes.
Tugging my hand, he pulls me into the room, and before I know it, he’s sinking to one knee in
front of me. Holy hell... I did not expect this! I stop breathing.
From his inside jacket pocket he produces a ring and gazes up at me, his eyes bright gray and
raw, full of emotion.
“Anastasia Steele. I love you. I want to love, cherish, and protect you for the rest of my life. Be
mine. Always. Share my life with me. Marry me.”
I blink down at him as my tears fall. My Fifty, my man. I love him so, and all I can say as the
tidal wave of emotion hits me is, “Yes.”
He grins, relieved, and slowly slides the ring on my finger. It’s beautiful, an oval diamond in a
platinum ring. Jeez—it’s big... Big, but oh-so-simple and stunning in its simplicity.
“Oh, Christian,” I sob, suddenly overwhelmed with joy, and I join him on my knees, my fingers
fisting in his hair as I kiss him, kiss him with all my heart and soul. Kiss this beautiful man, who loves
me as I love him; and as he wraps his arms around me, his hands moving to my hair, his mouth on
mine. I know deep down I will always be his, and he will always be mine. We’ve come so far together,
we have so far to go, but we are made for each other. We are meant to be.
The cigarette end glows brightly in the darkness as he takes a deep pull. He blows the smoke out
in a long exhale, finishing with two smoke rings that dissolve in front of him, pale and ghostly in the
moonlight. He shifts in his seat, bored, and takes a quick shot of cheap bourbon from a bottle wrapped
in shabby brown paper before resting it back between his thighs.
He can’t believe he’s still on the trail. His mouth twists in a sardonic sneer. The helicopter had
been a rash and bold move. One of the most exhilarating things he’d ever done in his life. But to no
avail. He rolls his eyes ironically. Who would have thought the son-of-a-bitch could actually fly the
fucker?
He snorts.
They have underestimated him. If Grey thought for one minute he’d go whimpering quietly into
the dusk, that prick didn’t know jack shit.
It had been the same all his life. People constantly underestimating him—just a man who reads
books. Fuck that! A man with a photographic memory who reads books. Oh, the things he’s learned,
the things he knows. He snorts again—Yeah, about you, Grey. The things I know about you.
Not bad for a kid from the gutter end of Detroit.
Not bad for the kid who won a scholarship to Princeton.
Not bad for the kid who worked his ass off through college and got into publishing.
And now all of that’s fucked, fucked because of Grey and his little bitch. He scowls at the house
as if it represents everything he despises. But there’s nothing doing. The only drama had been thestacked, blond broad in black, teetering down the driveway in tears before she climbed into the white
CLK and fucked off.
He chuckles mirthlessly, then winces. Fuck, his ribs. Still sore from the swift kicking Grey’s
henchman delivered.
He replays the scene in his mind. “You fucking touch Miss Steele again, I’ll fucking kill you.”
That motherfucker will get it good, too. Yeah—get what’s coming to him.
He settles back in his seat. Looks like it’s going to be a long night. He’ll stay, watch, and wait. He
takes another toke of his Marlboro red. His chance will come. His chance will come soon.
End of Part Two...

The Project Gutenberg eBook of Pride and Prejudice, by Jane Austen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Pride and Prejudice

Author: Jane Austen

Release Date: June, 1998 [eBook #1342]
[Most recently updated: August 23, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Anonymous Volunteers and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRIDE AND PREJUDICE ***




THERE IS AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THIS TITLE WHICH MAY VIEWED AT EBOOK
[# 42671 ]

cover




Pride and Prejudice

By Jane Austen

CONTENTS

  Chapter 1

  Chapter 2

  Chapter 3

  Chapter 4

  Chapter 5

  Chapter 6

  Chapter 7

  Chapter 8

  Chapter 9

  Chapter 10

  Chapter 11

  Chapter 12

  Chapter 13

  Chapter 14

  Chapter 15

  Chapter 16

  Chapter 17

  Chapter 18

  Chapter 19

  Chapter 20

  Chapter 21

  Chapter 22

  Chapter 23

  Chapter 24

  Chapter 25

  Chapter 26

  Chapter 27

  Chapter 28

  Chapter 29

  Chapter 30

  Chapter 31

  Chapter 32

  Chapter 33

  Chapter 34

  Chapter 35

  Chapter 36

  Chapter 37

  Chapter 38

  Chapter 39

  Chapter 40

  Chapter 41

  Chapter 42

  Chapter 43

  Chapter 44

  Chapter 45

  Chapter 46

  Chapter 47

  Chapter 48

  Chapter 49

  Chapter 50

  Chapter 51

  Chapter 52

  Chapter 53

  Chapter 54

  Chapter 55

  Chapter 56

  Chapter 57

  Chapter 58

  Chapter 59

  Chapter 60

  Chapter 61




Chapter 1

      It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in
      possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.

      However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be
      on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well
      fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is
      considered as the rightful property of some one or other of their
      daughters.

      “My dear Mr. Bennet,” said his lady to him one day, “have you
      heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?”

      Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.

      “But it is,” returned she; “for Mrs. Long has just been here, and
      she told me all about it.”

      Mr. Bennet made no answer.

      “Do not you want to know who has taken it?” cried his wife
      impatiently.

      “_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.”

      This was invitation enough.

      “Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is
      taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England;
      that he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the
      place, and was so much delighted with it that he agreed with Mr.
      Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before
      Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by
      the end of next week.”

      “What is his name?”

      “Bingley.”

      “Is he married or single?”

      “Oh! single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune;
      four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!”

      “How so? how can it affect them?”

      “My dear Mr. Bennet,” replied his wife, “how can you be so
      tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of
      them.”

      “Is that his design in settling here?”

      “Design! nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely
      that he _may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you
      must visit him as soon as he comes.”

      “I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may
      send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for
      as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley might like you
      the best of the party.”

      “My dear, you flatter me. I certainly _have_ had my share of
      beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
      When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over
      thinking of her own beauty.”

      “In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.”

      “But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he
      comes into the neighbourhood.”

      “It is more than I engage for, I assure you.”

      “But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it
      would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are
      determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you
      know, they visit no newcomers. Indeed you must go, for it will be
      impossible for _us_ to visit him, if you do not.”

      “You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be
      very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to
      assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he
      chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my
      little Lizzy.”

      “I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better
      than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as
      Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always
      giving _her_ the preference.”

      “They have none of them much to recommend them,” replied he;
      “they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has
      something more of quickness than her sisters.”

      “Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way?
      You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor
      nerves.”

      “You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves.
      They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with
      consideration these twenty years at least.”

      “Ah, you do not know what I suffer.”

      “But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men
      of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.”

      “It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you
      will not visit them.”

      “Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will
      visit them all.”

      Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
      reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty
      years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his
      character. _Her_ mind was less difficult to develop. She was a
      woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain
      temper. When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous.
      The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its
      solace was visiting and news.




Chapter 2

      Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr.
      Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last
      always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the
      evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it. It
      was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing his second
      daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her
      with,

      “I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.”

      “We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes,” said her
      mother resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”

      “But you forget, mamma,” said Elizabeth, “that we shall meet him
      at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him.”

      “I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two
      nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I
      have no opinion of her.”

      “No more have I,” said Mr. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that
      you do not depend on her serving you.”

      Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain
      herself, began scolding one of her daughters.

      “Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little
      compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”

      “Kitty has no discretion in her coughs,” said her father; “she
      times them ill.”

      “I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kitty fretfully.
      “When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?”

      “To-morrow fortnight.”

      “Aye, so it is,” cried her mother, “and Mrs. Long does not come
      back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to
      introduce him, for she will not know him herself.”

      “Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and
      introduce Mr. Bingley to _her_.”

      “Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted
      with him myself; how can you be so teasing?”

      “I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is
      certainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by
      the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture somebody else
      will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their
      chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness,
      if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.”

      The girls stared at their father. Mrs. Bennet said only,
      “Nonsense, nonsense!”

      “What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried he.
      “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that
      is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you
      _there_. What say you, Mary? for you are a young lady of deep
      reflection, I know, and read great books and make extracts.”

      Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.

      “While Mary is adjusting her ideas,” he continued, “let us return
      to Mr. Bingley.”

      “I am sick of Mr. Bingley,” cried his wife.

      “I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me so
      before? If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not
      have called on him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually
      paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now.”

      The astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished; that of
      Mrs. Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first
      tumult of joy was over, she began to declare that it was what she
      had expected all the while.

      “How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet! But I knew I should
      persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your girls too well to
      neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! and it is
      such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and
      never said a word about it till now.”

      “Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose,” said Mr.
      Bennet; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the
      raptures of his wife.

      “What an excellent father you have, girls,” said she, when the
      door was shut. “I do not know how you will ever make him amends
      for his kindness; or me either, for that matter. At our time of
      life, it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new
      acquaintance every day; but for your sakes, we would do
      anything. Lydia, my love, though you _are_ the youngest, I dare
      say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball.”

      “Oh!” said Lydia stoutly, “I am not afraid; for though I _am_ the
      youngest, I’m the tallest.”

      The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he
      would return Mr. Bennet’s visit, and determining when they should
      ask him to dinner.




Chapter 3

      Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her
      five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw
      from her husband any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley.
      They attacked him in various ways; with barefaced questions,
      ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the
      skill of them all; and they were at last obliged to accept the
      second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas. Her
      report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with
      him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
      agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next
      assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To
      be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love;
      and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained.

      “If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at
      Netherfield,” said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, “and all the
      others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”

      In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet’s visit, and sat
      about ten minutes with him in his library. He had entertained
      hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose
      beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father. The ladies
      were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of
      ascertaining from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and
      rode a black horse.

      An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and
      already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do
      credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred
      it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day,
      and consequently unable to accept the honour of their
      invitation, etc. Mrs. Bennet was quite disconcerted. She could
      not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his
      arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that he might be
      always flying about from one place to another, and never settled
      at Netherfield as he ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted her fears a
      little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to
      get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that
      Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with
      him to the assembly. The girls grieved over such a number of
      ladies; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing,
      that instead of twelve, he had brought only six with him from
      London, his five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered
      the assembly room it consisted of only five altogether; Mr.
      Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another
      young man.

      Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike; he had a pleasant
      countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine
      women, with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr.
      Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon
      drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome
      features, noble mien, and the report which was in general
      circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having
      ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine
      figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than
      Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about
      half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned
      the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud, to
      be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his
      large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most
      forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be
      compared with his friend.

      Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the
      principal people in the room; he was lively and unreserved,
      danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and
      talked of giving one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable
      qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between him
      and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and
      once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other
      lady, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the
      room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party. His
      character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man
      in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there
      again. Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet,
      whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into
      particular resentment by his having slighted one of her
      daughters.

      Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen,
      to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr.
      Darcy had been standing near enough for her to overhear a
      conversation between him and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance
      for a few minutes, to press his friend to join it.

      “Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you
      standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much
      better dance.”

      “I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am
      particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as
      this, it would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and
      there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a
      punishment to me to stand up with.”

      “I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley,
      “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant
      girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of
      them you see uncommonly pretty.”

      “_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said
      Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.

      “Oh! she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there
      is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very
      pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner
      to introduce you.”

      “Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at
      Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly
      said, “She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I
      am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies
      who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your
      partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with
      me.”

      Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and
      Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. She
      told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for
      she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in
      anything ridiculous.

      The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family.
      Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the
      Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she
      had been distinguished by his sisters. Jane was as much gratified
      by this as her mother could be, though in a quieter way.
      Elizabeth felt Jane’s pleasure. Mary had heard herself mentioned
      to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the
      neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough
      to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet
      learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good
      spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which
      they were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still
      up. With a book he was regardless of time; and on the present
      occasion he had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an
      evening which had raised such splendid expectations. He had
      rather hoped that all his wife’s views on the stranger would be
      disappointed; but he soon found that he had a very different story
      to hear.

      “Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as she entered the room, “we have had a
      most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had
      been there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it.
      Everybody said how well she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her
      quite beautiful, and danced with her twice. Only think of _that_,
      my dear; he actually danced with her twice; and she was the only
      creature in the room that he asked a second time. First of all,
      he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand up with her;
      but, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can,
      you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going
      down the dance. So he enquired who she was, and got introduced,
      and asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with
      Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth
      with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the
      _Boulanger_—”

      “If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried her husband
      impatiently, “he would not have danced half so much! For God’s
      sake, say no more of his partners. Oh that he had sprained his
      ankle in the first dance!”

      “Oh! my dear,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively
      handsome! and his sisters are charming women. I never in my life
      saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the lace
      upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown—”

      Here she was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any
      description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another
      branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of
      spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.

      “But I can assure you,” she added, “that Lizzy does not lose much
      by not suiting _his_ fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid
      man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that
      there was no enduring him! He walked here, and he walked there,
      fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance
      with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one
      of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.”




Chapter 4

      When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been
      cautious in her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her
      sister how very much she admired him.

      “He is just what a young man ought to be,” said she, “sensible,
      good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!—so
      much ease, with such perfect good breeding!”

      “He is also handsome,” replied Elizabeth, “which a young man
      ought likewise to be, if he possibly can. His character is
      thereby complete.”

      “I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second
      time. I did not expect such a compliment.”

      “Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference
      between us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_
      never. What could be more natural than his asking you again? He
      could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as
      every other woman in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for
      that. Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave
      to like him. You have liked many a stupider person.”

      “Dear Lizzy!”

      “Oh! you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in
      general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good
      and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a
      human being in my life.”

      “I would wish not to be hasty in censuring any one; but I always
      speak what I think.”

      “I know you do; and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With
      _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and
      nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough;—one
      meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or
      design—to take the good of everybody’s character and make it
      still better, and say nothing of the bad—belongs to you alone.
      And so, you like this man’s sisters, too, do you? Their manners
      are not equal to his.”

      “Certainly not; at first. But they are very pleasing women when
      you converse with them. Miss Bingley is to live with her brother,
      and keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a
      very charming neighbour in her.”

      Elizabeth listened in silence, but was not convinced; their
      behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in
      general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy
      of temper than her sister, and with a judgment too unassailed by
      any attention to herself, she was very little disposed to approve
      them. They were in fact very fine ladies; not deficient in good
      humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of
      being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited.
      They were rather handsome, had been educated in one of the first
      private seminaries in town, had a fortune of twenty thousand
      pounds, were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and
      of associating with people of rank; and were therefore in every
      respect entitled to think well of themselves, and meanly of
      others. They were of a respectable family in the north of
      England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories
      than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been acquired
      by trade.

      Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred
      thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an
      estate, but did not live to do it. Mr. Bingley intended it
      likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was
      now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was
      doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his
      temper, whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at
      Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.

      His sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own;
      but though he was now established only as a tenant, Miss Bingley
      was by no means unwilling to preside at his table, nor was Mrs.
      Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less
      disposed to consider his house as her home when it suited her.
      Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years, when he was tempted by
      an accidental recommendation to look at Netherfield House. He did
      look at it, and into it for half an hour, was pleased with the
      situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner
      said in its praise, and took it immediately.

      Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in
      spite of great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to
      Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper,
      though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own,
      and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied. On the
      strength of Darcy’s regard Bingley had the firmest reliance, and
      of his judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was
      the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient, but Darcy was
      clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and
      fastidious, and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting.
      In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was
      sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually
      giving offence.

      The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was
      sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with
      pleasanter people or prettier girls in his life; everybody had been
      most kind and attentive to him; there had been no formality, no
      stiffness; he had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as
      to Miss Bennet, he could not conceive an angel more beautiful.
      Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom
      there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had
      felt the smallest interest, and from none received either
      attention or pleasure. Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty,
      but she smiled too much.

      Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so—but still they
      admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl,
      and one whom they should not object to know more of. Miss Bennet
      was therefore established as a sweet girl, and their brother felt
      authorised by such commendation to think of her as he chose.




Chapter 5

      Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the
      Bennets were particularly intimate. Sir William Lucas had been
      formerly in trade in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable
      fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to
      the king during his mayoralty. The distinction had perhaps been
      felt too strongly. It had given him a disgust to his business
      and to his residence in a small market town; and, quitting
      them both, he had removed with his family to a house about a mile
      from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge, where he
      could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled
      by business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the
      world. For, though elated by his rank, it did not render him
      supercilious; on the contrary, he was all attention to everybody.
      By nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, his presentation
      at St. James’s had made him courteous.

      Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a
      valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet. They had several children. The
      eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about
      twenty-seven, was Elizabeth’s intimate friend.

      That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk
      over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the
      assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to
      communicate.

      “_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte,” said Mrs. Bennet with
      civil self-command to Miss Lucas. “_You_ were Mr. Bingley’s first
      choice.”

      “Yes; but he seemed to like his second better.”

      “Oh! you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
      To be sure that _did_ seem as if he admired her—indeed I rather
      believe he _did_—I heard something about it—but I hardly know
      what—something about Mr. Robinson.”

      “Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson;
      did not I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he
      liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there
      were a great many pretty women in the room, and _which_ he
      thought the prettiest? and his answering immediately to the last
      question—‘Oh! the eldest Miss Bennet, beyond a doubt, there
      cannot be two opinions on that point.’”

      “Upon my word! Well, that was very decided indeed—that does seem
      as if—but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.”

      “_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Eliza,”
      said Charlotte. “Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as
      his friend, is he?—Poor Eliza!—to be only just _tolerable_.”

      “I beg you would not put it into Lizzy’s head to be vexed by his
      ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man that it would
      be quite a misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. Long told me last
      night that he sat close to her for half an hour without once
      opening his lips.”

      “Are you quite sure, ma’am?—is not there a little mistake?” said
      Jane. “I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to her.”

      “Aye—because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and
      he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed very
      angry at being spoke to.”

      “Miss Bingley told me,” said Jane, “that he never speaks much
      unless among his intimate acquaintance. With _them_ he is
      remarkably agreeable.”

      “I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
      agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how
      it was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare
      say he had heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage,
      and had come to the ball in a hack chaise.”

      “I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long,” said Miss Lucas,
      “but I wish he had danced with Eliza.”

      “Another time, Lizzy,” said her mother, “I would not dance with
      _him_, if I were you.”

      “I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with
      him.”

      “His pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend _me_ so much as
      pride often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot
      wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune,
      everything in his favour, should think highly of himself. If I
      may so express it, he has a _right_ to be proud.”

      “That is very true,” replied Elizabeth, “and I could easily
      forgive _his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_.”

      “Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of
      her reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all
      that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common
      indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that
      there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of
      self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or
      imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things, though the
      words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without
      being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves,
      vanity to what we would have others think of us.”

      “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came
      with his sisters, “I should not care how proud I was. I would
      keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.”

      “Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,” said
      Mrs. Bennet; “and if I were to see you at it, I should take away
      your bottle directly.”

      The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare
      that she would, and the argument ended only with the visit.




Chapter 6

      The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The
      visit was returned in due form. Miss Bennet’s pleasing
      manners grew on the goodwill of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and
      though the mother was found to be intolerable, and the younger
      sisters not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted
      with _them_ was expressed towards the two eldest. By Jane this
      attention was received with the greatest pleasure; but Elizabeth
      still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody,
      hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them; though
      their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in
      all probability from the influence of their brother’s admiration.
      It was generally evident whenever they met, that he _did_ admire
      her; and to _her_ it was equally evident that Jane was yielding to
      the preference which she had begun to entertain for him from the
      first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but she
      considered with pleasure that it was not likely to be discovered
      by the world in general, since Jane united with great strength
      of feeling, a composure of temper and a uniform cheerfulness of
      manner which would guard her from the suspicions of the
      impertinent. She mentioned this to her friend Miss Lucas.

      “It may perhaps be pleasant,” replied Charlotte, “to be able to
      impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a
      disadvantage to be so very guarded. If a woman conceals her
      affection with the same skill from the object of it, she may lose
      the opportunity of fixing him; and it will then be but poor
      consolation to believe the world equally in the dark. There is so
      much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it
      is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all _begin_ freely—a
      slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of us
      who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement.
      In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show _more_ affection
      than she feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he may
      never do more than like her, if she does not help him on.”

      “But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow. If
      _I_ can perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton
      indeed not to discover it too.”

      “Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane’s disposition as you
      do.”

      “But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavour to
      conceal it, he must find it out.”

      “Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her. But though Bingley
      and Jane meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours
      together; and as they always see each other in large mixed
      parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in
      conversing together. Jane should therefore make the most of every
      half-hour in which she can command his attention. When she is
      secure of him, there will be leisure for falling in love as
      much as she chooses.”

      “Your plan is a good one,” replied Elizabeth, “where nothing is
      in question but the desire of being well married; and if I were
      determined to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I
      should adopt it. But these are not Jane’s feelings; she is not
      acting by design. As yet, she cannot even be certain of the
      degree of her own regard, nor of its reasonableness. She has known
      him only a fortnight. She danced four dances with him at Meryton;
      she saw him one morning at his own house, and has since dined
      in company with him four times. This is not quite enough to make
      her understand his character.”

      “Not as you represent it. Had she merely _dined_ with him, she
      might only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but
      you must remember that four evenings have been also spent
      together—and four evenings may do a great deal.”

      “Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that
      they both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to
      any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has
      been unfolded.”

      “Well,” said Charlotte, “I wish Jane success with all my heart;
      and if she were married to him to-morrow, I should think she had
      as good a chance of happiness as if she were to be studying his
      character for a twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a
      matter of chance. If the dispositions of the parties are ever so
      well known to each other, or ever so similar beforehand, it does
      not advance their felicity in the least. They always continue to
      grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have their share of
      vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the
      defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.”

      “You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound. You know it
      is not sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.”

      Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley’s attentions to her sister,
      Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming
      an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend. Mr. Darcy
      had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty; he had looked at
      her without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he
      looked at her only to criticise. But no sooner had he made it
      clear to himself and his friends that she had hardly a good
      feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
      uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark
      eyes. To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
      Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure
      of perfect symmetry in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her
      figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of his asserting
      that her manners were not those of the fashionable world, he was
      caught by their easy playfulness. Of this she was perfectly
      unaware;—to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable
      nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance
      with.

      He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards
      conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with
      others. His doing so drew her notice. It was at Sir William
      Lucas’s, where a large party were assembled.

      “What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said she to Charlotte, “by listening
      to my conversation with Colonel Forster?”

      “That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.”

      “But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I
      see what he is about. He has a very satirical eye, and if I do
      not begin by being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid
      of him.”

      On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming
      to have any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend
      to mention such a subject to him, which immediately provoking
      Elizabeth to do it, she turned to him and said,

      “Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly
      well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a
      ball at Meryton?”

      “With great energy; but it is a subject which always makes a lady
      energetic.”

      “You are severe on us.”

      “It will be _her_ turn soon to be teased,” said Miss Lucas. “I am
      going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.”

      “You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!—always
      wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my
      vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable;
      but as it is, I would really rather not sit down before those who
      must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.” On
      Miss Lucas’s persevering, however, she added, “Very well; if it
      must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, “There
      is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar
      with—‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’—and I shall keep
      mine to swell my song.”

      Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After a
      song or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of
      several that she would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at
      the instrument by her sister Mary, who having, in consequence of
      being the only plain one in the family, worked hard for knowledge
      and accomplishments, was always impatient for display.

      Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given
      her application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and
      conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of
      excellence than she had reached. Elizabeth, easy and unaffected,
      had been listened to with much more pleasure, though not playing
      half so well; and Mary, at the end of a long concerto, was glad
      to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs, at the
      request of her younger sisters, who with some of the Lucases,
      and two or three officers, joined eagerly in dancing at one end
      of the room.

      Mr. Darcy stood near them in silent indignation at such a mode of
      passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and
      was too much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that Sir
      William Lucas was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began.

      “What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy!
      There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of
      the first refinements of polished societies.”

      “Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue
      amongst the less polished societies of the world.—Every savage
      can dance.”

      Sir William only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” he
      continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; “and I
      doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr.
      Darcy.”

      “You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir.”

      “Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the
      sight. Do you often dance at St. James’s?”

      “Never, sir.”

      “Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?”

      “It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid
      it.”

      “You have a house in town, I conclude?”

      Mr. Darcy bowed.

      “I had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself—for I am
      fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that
      the air of London would agree with Lady Lucas.”

      He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not
      disposed to make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving
      towards them, he was struck with the notion of doing a very
      gallant thing, and called out to her,

      “My dear Miss Eliza, why are not you dancing? Mr. Darcy, you must
      allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable
      partner. You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much
      beauty is before you.” And, taking her hand, he would have given
      it to Mr. Darcy, who, though extremely surprised, was not
      unwilling to receive it, when she instantly drew back, and said
      with some discomposure to Sir William,

      “Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I
      entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg
      for a partner.”

      Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the
      honour of her hand, but in vain. Elizabeth was determined; nor
      did Sir William at all shake her purpose by his attempt at
      persuasion.

      “You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to
      deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman
      dislikes the amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am
      sure, to oblige us for one half-hour.”

      “Mr. Darcy is all politeness,” said Elizabeth, smiling.

      “He is, indeed—but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss
      Eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object
      to such a partner?”

      Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away. Her resistance had not
      injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with
      some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley,

      “I can guess the subject of your reverie.”

      “I should imagine not.”

      “You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many
      evenings in this manner—in such society; and indeed I am quite of
      your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet
      the noise; the nothingness, and yet the self-importance of all
      these people! What would I give to hear your strictures on them!”

      “Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more
      agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great
      pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman
      can bestow.”

      Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired
      he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such
      reflections. Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity,

      “Miss Elizabeth Bennet.”

      “Miss Elizabeth Bennet!” repeated Miss Bingley. “I am all
      astonishment. How long has she been such a favourite?—and pray
      when am I to wish you joy?”

      “That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A
      lady’s imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to
      love, from love to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be
      wishing me joy.”

      “Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as
      absolutely settled. You will have a charming mother-in-law,
      indeed, and of course she will be always at Pemberley with
      you.”

      He listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to
      entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced
      her that all was safe, her wit flowed long.




Chapter 7

      Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of
      two thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was
      entailed, in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and
      their mother’s fortune, though ample for her situation in life,
      could but ill supply the deficiency of his. Her father had been
      an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.

      She had a sister married to a Mr. Phillips, who had been a clerk
      to their father, and succeeded him in the business, and a brother
      settled in London in a respectable line of trade.

      The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most
      convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually
      tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to
      their aunt and to a milliner’s shop just over the way. The two
      youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly
      frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than
      their sisters’, and when nothing better offered, a walk to
      Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish
      conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the
      country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some
      from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both
      with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia
      regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter,
      and Meryton was the headquarters.

      Their visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most
      interesting intelligence. Every day added something to their
      knowledge of the officers’ names and connections. Their lodgings
      were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the
      officers themselves. Mr. Philips visited them all, and this
      opened to his nieces a source of felicity unknown before. They
      could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley’s large
      fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their mother, was
      worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an
      ensign.

      After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject,
      Mr. Bennet coolly observed,

      “From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must
      be two of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it
      some time, but I am now convinced.”

      Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with
      perfect indifference, continued to express her admiration of
      Captain Carter, and her hope of seeing him in the course of the
      day, as he was going the next morning to London.

      “I am astonished, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that you should be
      so ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think
      slightingly of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own,
      however.”

      “If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of
      it.”

      “Yes—but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.”

      “This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not
      agree. I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every
      particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think our two
      youngest daughters uncommonly foolish.”

      “My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the
      sense of their father and mother. When they get to our age, I
      dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do.
      I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well—and,
      indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel,
      with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my girls, I
      shall not say nay to him; and I thought Colonel Forster looked
      very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in his
      regimentals.”

      “Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and
      Captain Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did
      when they first came; she sees them now very often standing in
      Clarke’s library.”

      Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman
      with a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the
      servant waited for an answer. Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with
      pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter
      read,

      “Well, Jane, who is it from? What is it about? What does he say?
      Well, Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.”

      “It is from Miss Bingley,” said Jane, and then read it aloud.

      “MY DEAR FRIEND,—
      “If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa
      and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest
      of our lives, for a whole day’s _tête-à-tête_ between two women
      can never end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the
      receipt of this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with
      the officers.—Yours ever,

      “CAROLINE BINGLEY”

      “With the officers!” cried Lydia. “I wonder my aunt did not tell
      us of _that_.”

      “Dining out,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that is very unlucky.”

      “Can I have the carriage?” said Jane.

      “No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems
      likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.”

      “That would be a good scheme,” said Elizabeth, “if you were sure
      that they would not offer to send her home.”

      “Oh! but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley’s chaise to go to
      Meryton; and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.”

      “I had much rather go in the coach.”

      “But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure.
      They are wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are not they?”

      “They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.”

      “But if you have got them to-day,” said Elizabeth, “my mother’s
      purpose will be answered.”

      She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the
      horses were engaged. Jane was therefore obliged to go on
      horseback, and her mother attended her to the door with many
      cheerful prognostics of a bad day. Her hopes were answered; Jane
      had not been gone long before it rained hard. Her sisters were
      uneasy for her, but her mother was delighted. The rain continued
      the whole evening without intermission; Jane certainly could not
      come back.

      “This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!” said Mrs. Bennet, more
      than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
      Till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the
      felicity of her contrivance. Breakfast was scarcely over when a
      servant from Netherfield brought the following note for
      Elizabeth:

      “MY DEAREST LIZZY,—
      “I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to
      be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends
      will not hear of my returning home till I am better. They insist also
      on my seeing Mr. Jones—therefore do not be alarmed if you should
      hear of his having been to me—and, excepting a sore throat and
      headache, there is not much the matter with me.—Yours, &c.”

      “Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the
      note aloud, “if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of
      illness—if she should die, it would be a comfort to know that it
      was all in pursuit of Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.”

      “Oh! I am not at all afraid of her dying. People do not die of little
      trifling colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she
      stays there, it is all very well. I would go and see her if I
      could have the carriage.”

      Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her,
      though the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no
      horsewoman, walking was her only alternative. She declared her
      resolution.

      “How can you be so silly,” cried her mother, “as to think of such
      a thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when
      you get there.”

      “I shall be very fit to see Jane—which is all I want.”

      “Is this a hint to me, Lizzy,” said her father, “to send for the
      horses?”

      “No, indeed. I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is
      nothing, when one has a motive; only three miles. I shall be back
      by dinner.”

      “I admire the activity of your benevolence,” observed Mary, “but
      every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my
      opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is
      required.”

      “We will go as far as Meryton with you,” said Catherine and
      Lydia. Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young
      ladies set off together.

      “If we make haste,” said Lydia, as they walked along, “perhaps we
      may see something of Captain Carter before he goes.”

      In Meryton they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings
      of one of the officers’ wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk
      alone, crossing field after field at a quick pace, jumping over
      stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity, and
      finding herself at last within view of the house, with weary
      ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of
      exercise.

      She was shown into the breakfast-parlour, where all but Jane were
      assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of
      surprise. That she should have walked three miles so early in the
      day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible
      to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that
      they held her in contempt for it. She was received, however, very
      politely by them; and in their brother’s manners there was
      something better than politeness; there was good humour and
      kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst nothing at
      all. The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy
      which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as to the
      occasion’s justifying her coming so far alone. The latter was
      thinking only of his breakfast.

      Her enquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered.
      Miss Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and
      not well enough to leave her room. Elizabeth was glad to be taken
      to her immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the
      fear of giving alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in her note
      how much she longed for such a visit, was delighted at her
      entrance. She was not equal, however, to much conversation, and
      when Miss Bingley left them together, could attempt little
      beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness
      she was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended her.

      When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and
      Elizabeth began to like them herself, when she saw how much
      affection and solicitude they showed for Jane. The apothecary
      came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be
      supposed, that she had caught a violent cold, and that they must
      endeavour to get the better of it; advised her to return to bed,
      and promised her some draughts. The advice was followed readily,
      for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
      Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other
      ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact
      nothing to do elsewhere.

      When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and
      very unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered her the carriage,
      and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane
      testified such concern in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was
      obliged to convert the offer of the chaise to an invitation to
      remain at Netherfield for the present. Elizabeth most thankfully
      consented, and a servant was dispatched to Longbourn to acquaint
      the family with her stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.




Chapter 8

      At five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past
      six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil enquiries
      which then poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of
      distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley’s, she
      could not make a very favourable answer. Jane was by no means
      better. The sisters, on hearing this, repeated three or four
      times how much they were grieved, how shocking it was to have a
      bad cold, and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves;
      and then thought no more of the matter: and their indifference
      towards Jane when not immediately before them, restored Elizabeth
      to the enjoyment of all her original dislike.

      Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she
      could regard with any complacency. His anxiety for Jane was
      evident, and his attentions to herself most pleasing, and they
      prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed
      she was considered by the others. She had very little notice from
      any but him. Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy, her sister
      scarcely less so; and as for Mr. Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he
      was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at
      cards; who, when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout,
      had nothing to say to her.

      When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss
      Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her
      manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride
      and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty.
      Mrs. Hurst thought the same, and added,

      “She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an
      excellent walker. I shall never forget her appearance this
      morning. She really looked almost wild.”

      “She did, indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance.
      Very nonsensical to come at all! Why must _she_ be scampering
      about the country, because her sister had a cold? Her hair so
      untidy, so blowsy!”

      “Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches
      deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been
      let down to hide it not doing its office.”

      “Your picture may be very exact, Louisa,” said Bingley; “but this
      was all lost upon me. I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked
      remarkably well when she came into the room this morning. Her
      dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice.”

      “_You_ observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure,” said Miss Bingley;
      “and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your
      sister_ make such an exhibition.”

      “Certainly not.”

      “To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever
      it is, above her ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what
      could she mean by it? It seems to me to show an abominable sort
      of conceited independence, a most country-town indifference to
      decorum.”

      “It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing,”
      said Bingley.

      “I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley, in a half
      whisper, “that this adventure has rather affected your admiration
      of her fine eyes.”

      “Not at all,” he replied; “they were brightened by the exercise.”
      A short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again.

      “I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a
      very sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well
      settled. But with such a father and mother, and such low
      connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it.”

      “I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in
      Meryton.”

      “Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.”

      “That is capital,” added her sister, and they both laughed
      heartily.

      “If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside,” cried
      Bingley, “it would not make them one jot less agreeable.”

      “But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men
      of any consideration in the world,” replied Darcy.

      To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it
      their hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at
      the expense of their dear friend’s vulgar relations.

      With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room
      on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to
      coffee. She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit
      her at all, till late in the evening, when she had the comfort of
      seeing her asleep, and when it appeared to her rather right than
      pleasant that she should go downstairs herself. On entering the
      drawing-room she found the whole party at loo, and was
      immediately invited to join them; but suspecting them to be
      playing high she declined it, and making her sister the excuse,
      said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay
      below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment.

      “Do you prefer reading to cards?” said he; “that is rather
      singular.”

      “Miss Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, “despises cards. She is a
      great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.”

      “I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,” cried
      Elizabeth; “I am _not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in
      many things.”

      “In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,” said
      Bingley; “and I hope it will soon be increased by seeing her
      quite well.”

      Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards a
      table where a few books were lying. He immediately offered to
      fetch her others; all that his library afforded.

      “And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
      credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I
      have more than I ever looked into.”

      Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with
      those in the room.

      “I am astonished,” said Miss Bingley, “that my father should have
      left so small a collection of books. What a delightful library
      you have at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!”

      “It ought to be good,” he replied, “it has been the work of many
      generations.”

      “And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always
      buying books.”

      “I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days
      as these.”

      “Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the
      beauties of that noble place. Charles, when you build _your_
      house, I wish it may be half as delightful as Pemberley.”

      “I wish it may.”

      “But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that
      neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is
      not a finer county in England than Derbyshire.”

      “With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will
      sell it.”

      “I am talking of possibilities, Charles.”

      “Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get
      Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”

      Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her
      very little attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly
      aside, she drew near the card-table, and stationed herself
      between Mr. Bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.

      “Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?” said Miss Bingley;
      “will she be as tall as I am?”

      “I think she will. She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet’s
      height, or rather taller.”

      “How I long to see her again! I never met with anybody who
      delighted me so much. Such a countenance, such manners!—and so
      extremely accomplished for her age! Her performance on the
      pianoforte is exquisite.”

      “It is amazing to me,” said Bingley, “how young ladies can have
      patience to be so very accomplished as they all are.”

      “All young ladies accomplished! My dear Charles, what do you
      mean?”

      “Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens,
      and net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this,
      and I am sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first
      time, without being informed that she was very accomplished.”

      “Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Darcy,
      “has too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who
      deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a
      screen. But I am very far from agreeing with you in your
      estimation of ladies in general. I cannot boast of knowing more
      than half a dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that
      are really accomplished.”

      “Nor I, I am sure,” said Miss Bingley.

      “Then,” observed Elizabeth, “you must comprehend a great deal in
      your idea of an accomplished woman.”

      “Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it.”

      “Oh! certainly,” cried his faithful assistant, “no one can be
      really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is
      usually met with. A woman must have a thorough knowledge of
      music, singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to
      deserve the word; and besides all this, she must possess a
      certain something in her air and manner of walking, the tone of
      her voice, her address and expressions, or the word will be but
      half deserved.”

      “All this she must possess,” added Darcy, “and to all this she
      must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of
      her mind by extensive reading.”

      “I am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished
      women. I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_.”

      “Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility
      of all this?”

      “_I_ never saw such a woman. _I_ never saw such capacity, and
      taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe, united.”

      Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice
      of her implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew
      many women who answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called
      them to order, with bitter complaints of their inattention to
      what was going forward. As all conversation was thereby at an
      end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.

      “Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed
      on her, “is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend
      themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own; and with
      many men, I dare say, it succeeds. But, in my opinion, it is a
      paltry device, a very mean art.”

      “Undoubtedly,” replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly
      addressed, “there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies
      sometimes condescend to employ for captivation. Whatever bears
      affinity to cunning is despicable.”

      Miss Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to
      continue the subject.

      Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was
      worse, and that she could not leave her. Bingley urged Mr. Jones’s
      being sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no
      country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to
      town for one of the most eminent physicians. This she would not
      hear of; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their
      brother’s proposal; and it was settled that Mr. Jones should be
      sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet were not decidedly
      better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared
      that they were miserable. They solaced their wretchedness,
      however, by duets after supper, while he could find no better
      relief to his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions
      that every possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her
      sister.




Chapter 9

      Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister’s room, and
      in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable
      answer to the enquiries which she very early received from Mr.
      Bingley by a housemaid, and some time afterwards from the two
      elegant ladies who waited on his sisters. In spite of this
      amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to
      Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her own
      judgment of her situation. The note was immediately dispatched,
      and its contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. Bennet,
      accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon
      after the family breakfast.

      Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have
      been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her
      illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering
      immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove
      her from Netherfield. She would not listen, therefore, to her
      daughter’s proposal of being carried home; neither did the
      apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all
      advisable. After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss
      Bingley’s appearance and invitation, the mother and three
      daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour. Bingley
      met them with hopes that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet
      worse than she expected.

      “Indeed I have, sir,” was her answer. “She is a great deal too
      ill to be moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her.
      We must trespass a little longer on your kindness.”

      “Removed!” cried Bingley. “It must not be thought of. My sister,
      I am sure, will not hear of her removal.”

      “You may depend upon it, Madam,” said Miss Bingley, with cold
      civility, “that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention
      while she remains with us.”

      Mrs. Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.

      “I am sure,” she added, “if it was not for such good friends I do
      not know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed,
      and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the
      world, which is always the way with her, for she has, without
      exception, the sweetest temper I ever met with. I often tell
      my other girls they are nothing to _her_. You have a sweet room
      here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk.
      I do not know a place in the country that is equal to
      Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I
      hope, though you have but a short lease.”

      “Whatever I do is done in a hurry,” replied he; “and therefore if
      I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in
      five minutes. At present, however, I consider myself as quite
      fixed here.”

      “That is exactly what I should have supposed of you,” said
      Elizabeth.

      “You begin to comprehend me, do you?” cried he, turning towards
      her.

      “Oh! yes—I understand you perfectly.”

      “I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily
      seen through I am afraid is pitiful.”

      “That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep, intricate
      character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.”

      “Lizzy,” cried her mother, “remember where you are, and do not
      run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.”

      “I did not know before,” continued Bingley immediately, “that you
      were a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.”

      “Yes; but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing. They have
      at least that advantage.”

      “The country,” said Darcy, “can in general supply but few
      subjects for such a study. In a country neighbourhood you move in
      a very confined and unvarying society.”

      “But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new
      to be observed in them for ever.”

      “Yes, indeed,” cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of
      mentioning a country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite
      as much of _that_ going on in the country as in town.”

      Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at her for a
      moment, turned silently away. Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had
      gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.

      “I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the
      country, for my part, except the shops and public places. The
      country is a vast deal pleasanter, is not it, Mr. Bingley?”

      “When I am in the country,” he replied, “I never wish to leave
      it; and when I am in town it is pretty much the same. They have
      each their advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.”

      “Aye—that is because you have the right disposition. But that
      gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was
      nothing at all.”

      “Indeed, Mama, you are mistaken,” said Elizabeth, blushing for
      her mother. “You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that
      there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the
      country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.”

      “Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not
      meeting with many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there
      are few neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with
      four-and-twenty families.”

      Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep
      his countenance. His sister was less delicate, and directed her
      eye towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elizabeth,
      for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother’s
      thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn
      since _her_ coming away.

      “Yes, she called yesterday with her father. What an agreeable man
      Sir William is, Mr. Bingley—is not he? so much the man of
      fashion! So genteel and so easy! He has always something to say to
      everybody. _That_ is my idea of good breeding; and those persons
      who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths,
      quite mistake the matter.”

      “Did Charlotte dine with you?”

      “No, she would go home. I fancy she was wanted about the
      mince-pies. For my part, Mr. Bingley, _I_ always keep servants
      that can do their own work; _my_ daughters are brought up
      differently. But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the
      Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I assure you. It is a pity
      they are not handsome! Not that _I_ think Charlotte so _very_
      plain—but then she is our particular friend.”

      “She seems a very pleasant young woman,” said Bingley.

      “Oh! dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain. Lady Lucas
      herself has often said so, and envied me Jane’s beauty. I do not
      like to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Jane—one does not
      often see anybody better looking. It is what everybody says. I do
      not trust my own partiality. When she was only fifteen, there was
      a gentleman at my brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with her,
      that my sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before
      we came away. But, however, he did not. Perhaps he thought her
      too young. However, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty
      they were.”

      “And so ended his affection,” said Elizabeth impatiently. “There
      has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder
      who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away
      love!”

      “I have been used to consider poetry as the _food_ of love,” said
      Darcy.

      “Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what
      is strong already. But if it be only a slight, thin sort of
      inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it
      entirely away.”

      Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made
      Elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself
      again. She longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say;
      and after a short silence Mrs. Bennet began repeating her thanks
      to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to Jane, with an apology for
      troubling him also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil
      in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also,
      and say what the occasion required. She performed her part indeed
      without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
      soon afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the
      youngest of her daughters put herself forward. The two girls had
      been whispering to each other during the whole visit, and the
      result of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with
      having promised on his first coming into the country to give a
      ball at Netherfield.

      Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine
      complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her
      mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an early
      age. She had high animal spirits, and a sort of natural
      self-consequence, which the attentions of the officers, to whom
      her uncle’s good dinners and her own easy manners recommended
      her, had increased into assurance. She was very equal, therefore,
      to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly
      reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most
      shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer to
      this sudden attack was delightful to their mother’s ear.

      “I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and
      when your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the
      very day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while
      she is ill.”

      Lydia declared herself satisfied. “Oh! yes—it would be much
      better to wait till Jane was well, and by that time most likely
      Captain Carter would be at Meryton again. And when you have given
      _your_ ball,” she added, “I shall insist on their giving one
      also. I shall tell Colonel Forster it will be quite a shame if he
      does not.”

      Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth
      returned instantly to Jane, leaving her own and her relations’
      behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the
      latter of whom, however, could not be prevailed on to join in
      their censure of _her_, in spite of all Miss Bingley’s witticisms
      on _fine eyes_.




Chapter 10

      The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst and
      Miss Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the
      invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and in the
      evening Elizabeth joined their party in the drawing-room. The
      loo table, however, did not appear. Mr. Darcy was writing, and
      Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his
      letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to
      his sister. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and Mrs.
      Hurst was observing their game.

      Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in
      attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion. The
      perpetual commendations of the lady either on his handwriting,
      or on the evenness of his lines, or on the length of his letter,
      with the perfect unconcern with which her praises were received,
      formed a curious dialogue, and was exactly in unison with her
      opinion of each.

      “How delighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter!”

      He made no answer.

      “You write uncommonly fast.”

      “You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.”

      “How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course
      of a year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think
      them!”

      “It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to
      yours.”

      “Pray tell your sister that I long to see her.”

      “I have already told her so once, by your desire.”

      “I am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend it for you. I
      mend pens remarkably well.”

      “Thank you—but I always mend my own.”

      “How can you contrive to write so even?”

      He was silent.

      “Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on
      the harp, and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with
      her beautiful little design for a table, and I think it
      infinitely superior to Miss Grantley’s.”

      “Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write
      again? At present I have not room to do them justice.”

      “Oh! it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do
      you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?”

      “They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not
      for me to determine.”

      “It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter
      with ease, cannot write ill.”

      “That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried her
      brother, “because he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too
      much for words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?”

      “My style of writing is very different from yours.”

      “Oh!” cried Miss Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless
      way imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the
      rest.”

      “My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them—by
      which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my
      correspondents.”

      “Your humility, Mr. Bingley,” said Elizabeth, “must disarm
      reproof.”

      “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of
      humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes
      an indirect boast.”

      “And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of
      modesty?”

      “The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in
      writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity
      of thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not
      estimable, you think at least highly interesting. The power of
      doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the
      possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of
      the performance. When you told Mrs. Bennet this morning that if
      you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield you should be gone in
      five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of
      compliment to yourself—and yet what is there so very laudable in
      a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone,
      and can be of no real advantage to yourself or any one else?”

      “Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all
      the foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon
      my honour, I believed what I said of myself to be true, and I
      believe it at this moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume
      the character of needless precipitance merely to show off before
      the ladies.”

      “I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that
      you would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite
      as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you
      were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had
      better stay till next week,’ you would probably do it, you would
      probably not go—and, at another word, might stay a month.”

      “You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr.
      Bingley did not do justice to his own disposition. You have shown
      him off now much more than he did himself.”

      “I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting
      what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my
      temper. But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that
      gentleman did by no means intend; for he would certainly think
      the better of me, if under such a circumstance I were to give a flat
      denial, and ride off as fast as I could.”

      “Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original
      intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?”

      “Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter, Darcy must
      speak for himself.”

      “You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call
      mine, but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case,
      however, to stand according to your representation, you must
      remember, Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire
      his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely
      desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of
      its propriety.”

      “To yield readily—easily—to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no
      merit with you.”

      “To yield without conviction is no compliment to the
      understanding of either.”

      “You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence
      of friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would
      often make one readily yield to a request, without waiting for
      arguments to reason one into it. I am not particularly speaking
      of such a case as you have supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as
      well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs, before we
      discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon. But in general
      and ordinary cases between friend and friend, where one of them
      is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great
      moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with
      the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?”

      “Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to
      arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which
      is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of
      intimacy subsisting between the parties?”

      “By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars,
      not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will
      have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be
      aware of. I assure you that if Darcy were not such a great tall
      fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so
      much deference. I declare I do not know a more awful object than
      Darcy, on particular occasions, and in particular places; at his
      own house especially, and of a Sunday evening, when he has
      nothing to do.”

      Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that
      he was rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh. Miss
      Bingley warmly resented the indignity he had received, in an
      expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense.

      “I see your design, Bingley,” said his friend. “You dislike an
      argument, and want to silence this.”

      “Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and
      Miss Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall
      be very thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.”

      “What you ask,” said Elizabeth, “is no sacrifice on my side; and
      Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter.”

      Mr. Darcy took her advice, and did finish his letter.

      When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and
      Elizabeth for the indulgence of some music. Miss Bingley moved
      with alacrity to the pianoforte, and after a polite request
      that Elizabeth would lead the way, which the other as politely and
      more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.

      Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister, and while they were thus
      employed, Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over
      some music-books that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr.
      Darcy’s eyes were fixed on her. She hardly knew how to suppose
      that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man; and
      yet that he should look at her because he disliked her, was still
      more strange. She could only imagine, however, at last, that she
      drew his notice because there was a something about her more wrong and
      reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in any other
      person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked him
      too little to care for his approbation.

      After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm
      by a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing
      near Elizabeth, said to her—

      “Do not you feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such
      an opportunity of dancing a reel?”

      She smiled, but made no answer. He repeated the question, with
      some surprise at her silence.

      “Oh!” said she, “I heard you before; but I could not immediately
      determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say
      ‘Yes,’ that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste;
      but I always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and
      cheating a person of their premeditated contempt. I have,
      therefore, made up my mind to tell you, that I do not want to
      dance a reel at all—and now despise me if you dare.”

      “Indeed I do not dare.”

      Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at
      his gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness
      in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody;
      and Darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by
      her. He really believed, that were it not for the inferiority of
      her connections, he should be in some danger.

      Miss Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her
      great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend Jane received
      some assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth.

      She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by
      talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in
      such an alliance.

      “I hope,” said she, as they were walking together in the
      shrubbery the next day, “you will give your mother-in-law a few
      hints, when this desirable event takes place, as to the advantage
      of holding her tongue; and if you can compass it, do cure the
      younger girls of running after the officers. And, if I may mention so
      delicate a subject, endeavour to check that little something,
      bordering on conceit and impertinence, which your lady
      possesses.”

      “Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?”

      “Oh! yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips be
      placed in the gallery at Pemberley. Put them next to your
      great uncle the judge. They are in the same profession, you know,
      only in different lines. As for your Elizabeth’s picture, you
      must not attempt to have it taken, for what painter could do justice to
      those beautiful eyes?”

      “It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but
      their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine,
      might be copied.”

      At that moment they were met from another walk by Mrs. Hurst and
      Elizabeth herself.

      “I did not know that you intended to walk,” said Miss Bingley, in
      some confusion, lest they had been overheard.

      “You used us abominably ill,” answered Mrs. Hurst, “running away
      without telling us that you were coming out.”

      Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth
      to walk by herself. The path just admitted three. Mr. Darcy felt
      their rudeness, and immediately said,—

      “This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go
      into the avenue.”

      But Elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with
      them, laughingly answered,

      “No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and
      appear to uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by
      admitting a fourth. Good-bye.”

      She then ran gaily off, rejoicing as she rambled about, in the
      hope of being at home again in a day or two. Jane was already so
      much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of
      hours that evening.




Chapter 11

      When the ladies removed after dinner, Elizabeth ran up to her
      sister, and seeing her well guarded from cold, attended her into
      the drawing-room, where she was welcomed by her two friends with
      many professions of pleasure; and Elizabeth had never seen them
      so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the
      gentlemen appeared. Their powers of conversation were
      considerable. They could describe an entertainment with accuracy,
      relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their acquaintance
      with spirit.

      But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first
      object; Miss Bingley’s eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy,
      and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many
      steps. He addressed himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite
      congratulation; Mr. Hurst also made her a slight bow, and said he
      was “very glad;” but diffuseness and warmth remained for
      Bingley’s salutation. He was full of joy and attention. The first
      half-hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest she should suffer
      from the change of room; and she removed at his desire to the
      other side of the fireplace, that she might be further from the
      door. He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone
      else. Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with
      great delight.

      When tea was over, Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the
      card-table—but in vain. She had obtained private intelligence
      that Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards; and Mr. Hurst soon found
      even his open petition rejected. She assured him that no one
      intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the
      subject seemed to justify her. Mr. Hurst had therefore nothing to
      do, but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
      Darcy took up a book; Miss Bingley did the same; and Mrs. Hurst,
      principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings,
      joined now and then in her brother’s conversation with Miss
      Bennet.

      Miss Bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching
      Mr. Darcy’s progress through _his_ book, as in reading her own;
      and she was perpetually either making some enquiry, or looking at
      his page. She could not win him, however, to any conversation; he
      merely answered her question, and read on. At length, quite
      exhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book, which
      she had only chosen because it was the second volume of his, she
      gave a great yawn and said, “How pleasant it is to spend an
      evening in this way! I declare after all there is no enjoyment
      like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a
      book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I
      have not an excellent library.”

      No one made any reply. She then yawned again, threw aside her
      book, and cast her eyes round the room in quest for some
      amusement; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to Miss
      Bennet, she turned suddenly towards him and said:

      “By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a
      dance at Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on
      it, to consult the wishes of the present party; I am much
      mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be
      rather a punishment than a pleasure.”

      “If you mean Darcy,” cried her brother, “he may go to bed, if he
      chooses, before it begins—but as for the ball, it is quite a
      settled thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup
      enough, I shall send round my cards.”

      “I should like balls infinitely better,” she replied, “if they
      were carried on in a different manner; but there is something
      insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting. It
      would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of
      dancing were made the order of the day.”

      “Much more rational, my dear Caroline, I dare say, but it would
      not be near so much like a ball.”

      Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and
      walked about the room. Her figure was elegant, and she walked
      well; but Darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly
      studious. In the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one
      effort more, and, turning to Elizabeth, said:

      “Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and
      take a turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing
      after sitting so long in one attitude.”

      Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. Miss
      Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr.
      Darcy looked up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention
      in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously
      closed his book. He was directly invited to join their party, but
      he declined it, observing that he could imagine but two motives
      for their choosing to walk up and down the room together, with
      either of which motives his joining them would interfere. “What
      could he mean? She was dying to know what could be his
      meaning?”—and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand
      him?

      “Not at all,” was her answer; “but depend upon it, he means to be
      severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to
      ask nothing about it.”

      Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy
      in anything, and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation
      of his two motives.

      “I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he,
      as soon as she allowed him to speak. “You either choose this
      method of passing the evening because you are in each other’s
      confidence, and have secret affairs to discuss, or because you
      are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage
      in walking; if the first, I would be completely in your way, and
      if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the
      fire.”

      “Oh! shocking!” cried Miss Bingley. “I never heard anything so
      abominable. How shall we punish him for such a speech?”

      “Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said
      Elizabeth. “We can all plague and punish one another. Tease
      him—laugh at him. Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to
      be done.”

      “But upon my honour, I do _not_. I do assure you that my intimacy
      has not yet taught me _that_. Tease calmness of manner and
      presence of mind! No, no; I feel he may defy us there. And as to
      laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by
      attempting to laugh without a subject. Mr. Darcy may hug
      himself.”

      “Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elizabeth. “That is an
      uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it
      would be a great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintances. I
      dearly love a laugh.”

      “Miss Bingley,” said he, “has given me more credit than can be.
      The wisest and the best of men—nay, the wisest and best of their
      actions—may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object
      in life is a joke.”

      “Certainly,” replied Elizabeth—“there are such people, but I hope
      I am not one of _them_. I hope I never ridicule what is wise and
      good. Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_
      divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can. But these,
      I suppose, are precisely what you are without.”

      “Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the
      study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a
      strong understanding to ridicule.”

      “Such as vanity and pride.”

      “Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride—where there is a
      real superiority of mind, pride will be always under good
      regulation.”

      Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile.

      “Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume,” said Miss
      Bingley; “and pray what is the result?”

      “I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. He
      owns it himself without disguise.”

      “No,” said Darcy, “I have made no such pretension. I have faults
      enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I
      dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little
      yielding—certainly too little for the convenience of the world. I
      cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought,
      nor their offenses against myself. My feelings are not puffed
      about with every attempt to move them. My temper would perhaps be
      called resentful. My good opinion once lost, is lost forever.”

      “_That_ is a failing indeed!” cried Elizabeth. “Implacable
      resentment _is_ a shade in a character. But you have chosen your
      fault well. I really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me.”

      “There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some
      particular evil—a natural defect, which not even the best
      education can overcome.”

      “And _your_ defect is to hate everybody.”

      “And yours,” he replied with a smile, “is willfully to
      misunderstand them.”

      “Do let us have a little music,” cried Miss Bingley, tired of a
      conversation in which she had no share. “Louisa, you will not
      mind my waking Mr. Hurst?”

      Her sister had not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was
      opened; and Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not
      sorry for it. He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too
      much attention.




Chapter 12

      In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth
      wrote the next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage
      might be sent for them in the course of the day. But Mrs. Bennet,
      who had calculated on her daughters remaining at Netherfield till
      the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish Jane’s week,
      could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before. Her
      answer, therefore, was not propitious, at least not to
      Elizabeth’s wishes, for she was impatient to get home. Mrs.
      Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the
      carriage before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that
      if Mr. Bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she
      could spare them very well. Against staying longer, however,
      Elizabeth was positively resolved—nor did she much expect it
      would be asked; and fearful, on the contrary, as being considered
      as intruding themselves needlessly long, she urged Jane to borrow
      Mr. Bingley’s carriage immediately, and at length it was settled
      that their original design of leaving Netherfield that morning
      should be mentioned, and the request made.

      The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough
      was said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day
      to work on Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred.
      Miss Bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay, for
      her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her
      affection for the other.

      The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to
      go so soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade Miss Bennet that it
      would not be safe for her—that she was not enough recovered; but
      Jane was firm where she felt herself to be right.

      To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence—Elizabeth had been at
      Netherfield long enough. She attracted him more than he liked—and
      Miss Bingley was uncivil to _her_, and more teasing than usual to
      himself. He wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no
      sign of admiration should _now_ escape him, nothing that could
      elevate her with the hope of influencing his felicity; sensible
      that if such an idea had been suggested, his behaviour during the
      last day must have material weight in confirming or crushing it.
      Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to her through
      the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by
      themselves for half-an-hour, he adhered most conscientiously to
      his book, and would not even look at her.

      On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to
      almost all, took place. Miss Bingley’s civility to Elizabeth
      increased at last very rapidly, as well as her affection for
      Jane; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the
      pleasure it would always give her to see her either at Longbourn
      or Netherfield, and embracing her most tenderly, she even shook
      hands with the former. Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in
      the liveliest of spirits.

      They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother. Mrs.
      Bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to
      give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold
      again. But their father, though very laconic in his expressions
      of pleasure, was really glad to see them; he had felt their
      importance in the family circle. The evening conversation, when
      they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and
      almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth.

      They found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough-bass and
      human nature; and had some extracts to admire, and some new
      observations of threadbare morality to listen to. Catherine and
      Lydia had information for them of a different sort. Much had been
      done and much had been said in the regiment since the preceding
      Wednesday; several of the officers had dined lately with their
      uncle, a private had been flogged, and it had actually been
      hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married.




Chapter 13

      “I hope, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
      breakfast the next morning, “that you have ordered a good dinner
      to-day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family
      party.”

      “Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am
      sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in—and I hope
      _my_ dinners are good enough for her. I do not believe she often
      sees such at home.”

      “The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger.”

      Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled. “A gentleman and a stranger! It is
      Mr. Bingley, I am sure! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad
      to see Mr. Bingley. But—good Lord! how unlucky! There is not a
      bit of fish to be got to-day. Lydia, my love, ring the bell—I
      must speak to Hill this moment.”

      “It is _not_ Mr. Bingley,” said her husband; “it is a person whom
      I never saw in the whole course of my life.”

      This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of
      being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at
      once.

      After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus
      explained:

      “About a month ago I received this letter; and about a fortnight
      ago I answered it, for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and
      requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins,
      who, when I am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon
      as he pleases.”

      “Oh! my dear,” cried his wife, “I cannot bear to hear that
      mentioned. Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is
      the hardest thing in the world, that your estate should be
      entailed away from your own children; and I am sure, if I had
      been you, I should have tried long ago to do something or other
      about it.”

      Jane and Elizabeth tried to explain to her the nature of an
      entail. They had often attempted to do it before, but it was a
      subject on which Mrs. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and
      she continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an
      estate away from a family of five daughters, in favour of a man
      whom nobody cared anything about.

      “It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mr. Bennet, “and
      nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting
      Longbourn. But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps
      be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself.”

      “No, that I am sure I shall not; and I think it is very
      impertinent of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical.
      I hate such false friends. Why could he not keep on quarreling
      with you, as his father did before him?”

      “Why, indeed; he does seem to have had some filial scruples on
      that head, as you will hear.”

      “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, 15_th October_.

      “Dear Sir,—
      “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late
      honoured father always gave me much uneasiness, and since I have
      had the misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal
      the breach; but for some time I was kept back by my own doubts,
      fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to
      be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him
      to be at variance.—‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’—My mind, however, is now
      made up on the subject, for having received ordination at Easter,
      I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage
      of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir
      Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to
      the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest
      endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her
      ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies
      which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman,
      moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing
      of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on
      these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures are
      highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next in
      the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly overlooked on your
      side, and not lead you to reject the offered olive-branch. I
      cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring
      your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as
      well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible
      amends—but of this hereafter. If you should have no objection to
      receive me into your house, I propose myself the satisfaction of
      waiting on you and your family, Monday, November 18th, by four
      o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the
      Saturday se’ennight following, which I can do without any
      inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting to my
      occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other
      clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day.—I remain, dear
      sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your
      well-wisher and friend,

      “WILLIAM COLLINS”

      “At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making
      gentleman,” said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter. “He
      seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man, upon my
      word, and I doubt not will prove a valuable acquaintance,
      especially if Lady Catherine should be so indulgent as to let him
      come to us again.”

      “There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however,
      and if he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the
      person to discourage him.”

      “Though it is difficult,” said Jane, “to guess in what way he can
      mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is
      certainly to his credit.”

      Elizabeth was chiefly struck by his extraordinary deference for
      Lady Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying,
      and burying his parishioners whenever it were required.

      “He must be an oddity, I think,” said she. “I cannot make him
      out.—There is something very pompous in his style.—And what can
      he mean by apologising for being next in the entail?—We cannot
      suppose he would help it if he could.—Could he be a sensible man,
      sir?”

      “No, my dear, I think not. I have great hopes of finding him
      quite the reverse. There is a mixture of servility and
      self-importance in his letter, which promises well. I am
      impatient to see him.”

      “In point of composition,” said Mary, “the letter does not seem
      defective. The idea of the olive-branch perhaps is not wholly
      new, yet I think it is well expressed.”

      To Catherine and Lydia, neither the letter nor its writer were in
      any degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their
      cousin should come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks
      since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any
      other colour. As for their mother, Mr. Collins’s letter had done
      away much of her ill-will, and she was preparing to see him with
      a degree of composure which astonished her husband and daughters.

      Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great
      politeness by the whole family. Mr. Bennet indeed said little;
      but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed
      neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent
      himself. He was a tall, heavy-looking young man of
      five-and-twenty. His air was grave and stately, and his manners
      were very formal. He had not been long seated before he
      complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of daughters;
      said he had heard much of their beauty, but that in this instance
      fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not
      doubt her seeing them all in due time disposed of in marriage.
      This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers;
      but Mrs. Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most
      readily.

      “You are very kind, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it
      may prove so, for else they will be destitute enough. Things are
      settled so oddly.”

      “You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.”

      “Ah! sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls,
      you must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for
      such things I know are all chance in this world. There is no
      knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed.”

      “I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins,
      and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of
      appearing forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young
      ladies that I come prepared to admire them. At present I will not
      say more; but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted—”

      He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled
      on each other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s
      admiration. The hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture,
      were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything
      would have touched Mrs. Bennet’s heart, but for the mortifying
      supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property. The
      dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and he begged to know
      to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its cooking was
      owing. But he was set right there by Mrs. Bennet, who assured him
      with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good
      cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He
      begged pardon for having displeased her. In a softened tone she
      declared herself not at all offended; but he continued to
      apologise for about a quarter of an hour.




Chapter 14

      During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the
      servants were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some
      conversation with his guest, and therefore started a subject in
      which he expected him to shine, by observing that he seemed very
      fortunate in his patroness. Lady Catherine de Bourgh’s attention
      to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very
      remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen better. Mr. Collins
      was eloquent in her praise. The subject elevated him to more than
      usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he
      protested that “he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour
      in a person of rank—such affability and condescension, as he had
      himself experienced from Lady Catherine. She had been graciously
      pleased to approve of both of the discourses which he had already
      had the honour of preaching before her. She had also asked him
      twice to dine at Rosings, and had sent for him only the Saturday
      before, to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening. Lady
      Catherine was reckoned proud by many people he knew, but _he_ had
      never seen anything but affability in her. She had always spoken
      to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the
      smallest objection to his joining in the society of the
      neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a
      week or two, to visit his relations. She had even condescended to
      advise him to marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with
      discretion; and had once paid him a visit in his humble
      parsonage, where she had perfectly approved all the alterations
      he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some
      herself—some shelves in the closet up stairs.”

      “That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mrs. Bennet,
      “and I dare say she is a very agreeable woman. It is a pity that
      great ladies in general are not more like her. Does she live near
      you, sir?”

      “The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by
      a lane from Rosings Park, her ladyship’s residence.”

      “I think you said she was a widow, sir? Has she any family?”

      “She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
      extensive property.”

      “Ah!” said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, “then she is better off
      than many girls. And what sort of young lady is she? Is she
      handsome?”

      “She is a most charming young lady indeed. Lady Catherine herself
      says that, in point of true beauty, Miss de Bourgh is far
      superior to the handsomest of her sex, because there is that in
      her features which marks the young lady of distinguished birth.
      She is unfortunately of a sickly constitution, which has
      prevented her from making that progress in many accomplishments
      which she could not have otherwise failed of, as I am informed by
      the lady who superintended her education, and who still resides
      with them. But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends to
      drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies.”

      “Has she been presented? I do not remember her name among the
      ladies at court.”

      “Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in
      town; and by that means, as I told Lady Catherine one day, has
      deprived the British court of its brightest ornament. Her
      ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I
      am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate
      compliments which are always acceptable to ladies. I have more
      than once observed to Lady Catherine, that her charming daughter
      seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most elevated rank,
      instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by her. These
      are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and it
      is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound
      to pay.”

      “You judge very properly,” said Mr. Bennet, “and it is happy for
      you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May
      I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse
      of the moment, or are the result of previous study?”

      “They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though
      I sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such
      little elegant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary
      occasions, I always wish to give them as unstudied an air as
      possible.”

      Mr. Bennet’s expectations were fully answered. His cousin was as
      absurd as he had hoped, and he listened to him with the keenest
      enjoyment, maintaining at the same time the most resolute
      composure of countenance, and, except in an occasional glance at
      Elizabeth, requiring no partner in his pleasure.

      By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet
      was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and, when
      tea was over, glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies. Mr.
      Collins readily assented, and a book was produced; but, on
      beholding it (for everything announced it to be from a
      circulating library), he started back, and begging pardon,
      protested that he never read novels. Kitty stared at him, and
      Lydia exclaimed. Other books were produced, and after some
      deliberation he chose Fordyce’s Sermons. Lydia gaped as he opened
      the volume, and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity,
      read three pages, she interrupted him with:

      “Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning away
      Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him. My aunt
      told me so herself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow
      to hear more about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from
      town.”

      Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but
      Mr. Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said:

      “I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by
      books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their
      benefit. It amazes me, I confess; for, certainly, there can be
      nothing so advantageous to them as instruction. But I will no
      longer importune my young cousin.”

      Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist
      at backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that
      he acted very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling
      amusements. Mrs. Bennet and her daughters apologised most civilly
      for Lydia’s interruption, and promised that it should not occur
      again, if he would resume his book; but Mr. Collins, after
      assuring them that he bore his young cousin no ill-will, and
      should never resent her behaviour as any affront, seated himself
      at another table with Mr. Bennet, and prepared for backgammon.




Chapter 15

      Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature
      had been but little assisted by education or society; the
      greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of
      an illiterate and miserly father; and though he belonged to one
      of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms,
      without forming at it any useful acquaintance. The subjection in
      which his father had brought him up had given him originally
      great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted
      by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the
      consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity. A
      fortunate chance had recommended him to Lady Catherine de Bourgh
      when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which he
      felt for her high rank, and his veneration for her as his
      patroness, mingling with a very good opinion of himself, of his
      authority as a clergyman, and his right as a rector, made him
      altogether a mixture of pride and obsequiousness, self-importance
      and humility.

      Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended
      to marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn
      family he had a wife in view, as he meant to choose one of the
      daughters, if he found them as handsome and amiable as they were
      represented by common report. This was his plan of amends—of
      atonement—for inheriting their father’s estate; and he thought it
      an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and
      excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.

      His plan did not vary on seeing them. Miss Bennet’s lovely face
      confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of
      what was due to seniority; and for the first evening _she_ was
      his settled choice. The next morning, however, made an
      alteration; for in a quarter of an hour’s _tête-à-tête_ with Mrs.
      Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with his
      parsonage-house, and leading naturally to the avowal of his
      hopes, that a mistress might be found for it at Longbourn,
      produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general
      encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on.
      “As to her _younger_ daughters, she could not take upon her to
      say—she could not positively answer—but she did not _know_ of any
      prepossession; her _eldest_ daughter, she must just mention—she
      felt it incumbent on her to hint, was likely to be very soon
      engaged.”

      Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth—and it was
      soon done—done while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire.
      Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded
      her of course.

      Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might
      soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not
      bear to speak of the day before was now high in her good graces.

      Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten; every
      sister except Mary agreed to go with her; and Mr. Collins was to
      attend them, at the request of Mr. Bennet, who was most anxious
      to get rid of him, and have his library to himself; for thither
      Mr. Collins had followed him after breakfast; and there he would
      continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the
      collection, but really talking to Mr. Bennet, with little
      cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford. Such doings
      discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly. In his library he had been
      always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as
      he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other
      room of the house, he was used to be free from them there; his
      civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to
      join his daughters in their walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact
      much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely
      pleased to close his large book, and go.

      In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his
      cousins, their time passed till they entered Meryton. The
      attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by
      _him_. Their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in
      quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart bonnet
      indeed, or a really new muslin in a shop window, could recall
      them.

      But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man,
      whom they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike
      appearance, walking with another officer on the other side of the
      way. The officer was the very Mr. Denny concerning whose return
      from London Lydia came to enquire, and he bowed as they passed.
      All were struck with the stranger’s air, all wondered who he
      could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find
      out, led the way across the street, under pretense of wanting
      something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained
      the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached
      the same spot. Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated
      permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned
      with him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had
      accepted a commission in their corps. This was exactly as it
      should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make him
      completely charming. His appearance was greatly in his favour; he
      had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good
      figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction was followed
      up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation—a readiness
      at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole
      party were still standing and talking together very agreeably,
      when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley
      were seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the ladies of
      the group, the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and
      began the usual civilities. Bingley was the principal spokesman,
      and Miss Bennet the principal object. He was then, he said, on
      his way to Longbourn on purpose to enquire after her. Mr. Darcy
      corroborated it with a bow, and was beginning to determine not to
      fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they were suddenly arrested by
      the sight of the stranger, and Elizabeth happening to see the
      countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all
      astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour,
      one looked white, the other red. Mr. Wickham, after a few
      moments, touched his hat—a salutation which Mr. Darcy just
      deigned to return. What could be the meaning of it? It was
      impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.

      In another minute, Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have
      noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.

      Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young ladies to the
      door of Mr. Phillip’s house, and then made their bows, in spite
      of Miss Lydia’s pressing entreaties that they should come in, and
      even in spite of Mrs. Phillips’s throwing up the parlour window
      and loudly seconding the invitation.

      Mrs. Phillips was always glad to see her nieces; and the two
      eldest, from their recent absence, were particularly welcome, and
      she was eagerly expressing her surprise at their sudden return
      home, which, as their own carriage had not fetched them, she
      should have known nothing about, if she had not happened to see
      Mr. Jones’s shop-boy in the street, who had told her that they
      were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield because the
      Miss Bennets were come away, when her civility was claimed
      towards Mr. Collins by Jane’s introduction of him. She received
      him with her very best politeness, which he returned with as much
      more, apologising for his intrusion, without any previous
      acquaintance with her, which he could not help flattering
      himself, however, might be justified by his relationship to the
      young ladies who introduced him to her notice. Mrs. Phillips was
      quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but her
      contemplation of one stranger was soon put to an end by
      exclamations and enquiries about the other; of whom, however, she
      could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. Denny
      had brought him from London, and that he was to have a
      lieutenant’s commission in the ——shire. She had been watching him
      the last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and
      had Mr. Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have
      continued the occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now
      except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the
      stranger, were become “stupid, disagreeable fellows.” Some of
      them were to dine with the Phillipses the next day, and their
      aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give
      him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come
      in the evening. This was agreed to, and Mrs. Phillips protested
      that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
      tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect
      of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual
      good spirits. Mr. Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the
      room, and was assured with unwearying civility that they were
      perfectly needless.

      As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen
      pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have
      defended either or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong,
      she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.

      Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by
      admiring Mrs. Phillips’s manners and politeness. He protested
      that, except Lady Catherine and her daughter, he had never seen a
      more elegant woman; for she had not only received him with the
      utmost civility, but even pointedly included him in her
      invitation for the next evening, although utterly unknown to her
      before. Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his
      connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much
      attention in the whole course of his life.




Chapter 16

      As no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with
      their aunt, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and
      Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most
      steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at
      a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of
      hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had
      accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in the house.

      When this information was given, and they had all taken their
      seats, Mr. Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire,
      and he was so much struck with the size and furniture of the
      apartment, that he declared he might almost have supposed himself
      in the small summer breakfast parlour at Rosings; a comparison
      that did not at first convey much gratification; but when Mrs.
      Phillips understood from him what Rosings was, and who was its
      proprietor—when she had listened to the description of only one
      of Lady Catherine’s drawing-rooms, and found that the
      chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
      the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a
      comparison with the housekeeper’s room.

      In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her
      mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble
      abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily
      employed until the gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs.
      Phillips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his
      consequence increased with what she heard, and who was resolving
      to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could. To
      the girls, who could not listen to their cousin, and who had
      nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine their
      own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the
      interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last,
      however. The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked
      into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing
      him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree
      of unreasonable admiration. The officers of the ——shire were in
      general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set, and the best of
      them were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond
      them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as _they_ were
      superior to the broad-faced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing
      port wine, who followed them into the room.

      Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female
      eye was turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he
      finally seated himself; and the agreeable manner in which he
      immediately fell into conversation, though it was only on its
      being a wet night, made her feel that the commonest, dullest,
      most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill
      of the speaker.

      With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and
      the officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to
      the young ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at
      intervals a kind listener in Mrs. Phillips, and was by her
      watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.
      When the card-tables were placed, he had the opportunity of
      obliging her in turn, by sitting down to whist.

      “I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be
      glad to improve myself, for in my situation in life—” Mrs.
      Phillips was very glad for his compliance, but could not wait for
      his reason.

      Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he
      received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first
      there seemed danger of Lydia’s engrossing him entirely, for she
      was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond
      of lottery tickets, she soon grew too much interested in the
      game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to
      have attention for anyone in particular. Allowing for the common
      demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk
      to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what
      she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told—the
      history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. She dared not even
      mention that gentleman. Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
      relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject himself. He enquired how
      far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her
      answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been
      staying there.

      “About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the
      subject drop, added, “He is a man of very large property in
      Derbyshire, I understand.”

      “Yes,” replied Mr. Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A
      clear ten thousand per annum. You could not have met with a
      person more capable of giving you certain information on that
      head than myself, for I have been connected with his family in a
      particular manner from my infancy.”

      Elizabeth could not but look surprised.

      “You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion,
      after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our
      meeting yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?”

      “As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth very warmly. “I
      have spent four days in the same house with him, and I think him
      very disagreeable.”

      “I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his
      being agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I
      have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is
      impossible for _me_ to be impartial. But I believe your opinion
      of him would in general astonish—and perhaps you would not
      express it quite so strongly anywhere else. Here you are in your
      own family.”

      “Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house
      in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield. He is not at all liked
      in Hertfordshire. Everybody is disgusted with his pride. You will
      not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone.”

      “I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Wickham, after a short
      interruption, “that he or that any man should not be estimated
      beyond their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often
      happen. The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or
      frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as
      he chooses to be seen.”

      “I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an
      ill-tempered man.” Wickham only shook his head.

      “I wonder,” said he, at the next opportunity of speaking,
      “whether he is likely to be in this country much longer.”

      “I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away
      when I was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the
      ——shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.”

      “Oh! no—it is not for _me_ to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If
      _he_ wishes to avoid seeing _me_, he must go. We are not on
      friendly terms, and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I
      have no reason for avoiding _him_ but what I might proclaim
      before all the world, a sense of very great ill-usage, and most
      painful regrets at his being what he is. His father, Miss Bennet,
      the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed,
      and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be in company
      with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a
      thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has been
      scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and
      everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and
      disgracing the memory of his father.”

      Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and
      listened with all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented
      further enquiry.

      Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the
      neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all
      that he had yet seen, and speaking of the latter with gentle but
      very intelligible gallantry.

      “It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” he
      added, “which was my chief inducement to enter the ——shire. I
      knew it to be a most respectable, agreeable corps, and my friend
      Denny tempted me further by his account of their present
      quarters, and the very great attentions and excellent
      acquaintances Meryton had procured them. Society, I own, is
      necessary to me. I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits
      will not bear solitude. I _must_ have employment and society. A
      military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances
      have now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my
      profession—I was brought up for the church, and I should at this
      time have been in possession of a most valuable living, had it
      pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now.”

      “Indeed!”

      “Yes—the late Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of
      the best living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively
      attached to me. I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to
      provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the
      living fell, it was given elsewhere.”

      “Good heavens!” cried Elizabeth; “but how could _that_ be? How
      could his will be disregarded? Why did you not seek legal
      redress?”

      “There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest
      as to give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have
      doubted the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it—or to
      treat it as a merely conditional recommendation, and to assert
      that I had forfeited all claim to it by extravagance,
      imprudence—in short anything or nothing. Certain it is, that the
      living became vacant two years ago, exactly as I was of an age to
      hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no less
      certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done
      anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm, unguarded temper,
      and I may have spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too
      freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are
      very different sort of men, and that he hates me.”

      “This is quite shocking! He deserves to be publicly disgraced.”

      “Some time or other he _will_ be—but it shall not be by _me_.
      Till I can forget his father, I can never defy or expose _him_.”

      Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him
      handsomer than ever as he expressed them.

      “But what,” said she, after a pause, “can have been his motive?
      What can have induced him to behave so cruelly?”

      “A thorough, determined dislike of me—a dislike which I cannot
      but attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy
      liked me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his
      father’s uncommon attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very
      early in life. He had not a temper to bear the sort of
      competition in which we stood—the sort of preference which was
      often given me.”

      “I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this—though I have never
      liked him. I had not thought so very ill of him. I had supposed
      him to be despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not
      suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge, such
      injustice, such inhumanity as this.”

      After a few minutes’ reflection, however, she continued, “I _do_
      remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the
      implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving
      temper. His disposition must be dreadful.”

      “I will not trust myself on the subject,” replied Wickham; “_I_
      can hardly be just to him.”

      Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed,
      “To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite
      of his father!” She could have added, “A young man, too, like
      _you_, whose very countenance may vouch for your being
      amiable”—but she contented herself with, “and one, too, who had
      probably been his companion from childhood, connected together,
      as I think you said, in the closest manner!”

      “We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the
      greatest part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the
      same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same
      parental care. _My_ father began life in the profession which
      your uncle, Mr. Phillips, appears to do so much credit to—but he
      gave up everything to be of use to the late Mr. Darcy and devoted
      all his time to the care of the Pemberley property. He was most
      highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most intimate, confidential
      friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to be under the
      greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence, and
      when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him a
      voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he
      felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_, as of his
      affection to myself.”

      “How strange!” cried Elizabeth. “How abominable! I wonder that
      the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you! If
      from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to
      be dishonest—for dishonesty I must call it.”

      “It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham, “for almost all his actions
      may be traced to pride; and pride had often been his best friend.
      It has connected him nearer with virtue than with any other
      feeling. But we are none of us consistent, and in his behaviour
      to me there were stronger impulses even than pride.”

      “Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?”

      “Yes. It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give
      his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants,
      and relieve the poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride—for he is
      very proud of what his father was—have done this. Not to appear
      to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities,
      or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful
      motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride, which, with _some_
      brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and careful guardian
      of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up as the
      most attentive and best of brothers.”

      “What sort of girl is Miss Darcy?”

      He shook his head. “I wish I could call her amiable. It gives me
      pain to speak ill of a Darcy. But she is too much like her
      brother—very, very proud. As a child, she was affectionate and
      pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and
      hours to her amusement. But she is nothing to me now. She is a
      handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand,
      highly accomplished. Since her father’s death, her home has been
      London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her
      education.”

      After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth
      could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying:

      “I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley! How can Mr.
      Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe,
      truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man? How can they
      suit each other? Do you know Mr. Bingley?”

      “Not at all.”

      “He is a sweet-tempered, amiable, charming man. He cannot know
      what Mr. Darcy is.”

      “Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses. He does
      not want abilities. He can be a conversible companion if he
      thinks it worth his while. Among those who are at all his equals
      in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the
      less prosperous. His pride never deserts him; but with the rich
      he is liberal-minded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and
      perhaps agreeable—allowing something for fortune and figure.”

      The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered
      round the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between
      his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips. The usual enquiries as to
      his success were made by the latter. It had not been very great;
      he had lost every point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express
      her concern thereupon, he assured her with much earnest gravity
      that it was not of the least importance, that he considered the
      money as a mere trifle, and begged that she would not make
      herself uneasy.

      “I know very well, madam,” said he, “that when persons sit down
      to a card-table, they must take their chances of these things,
      and happily I am not in such circumstances as to make five
      shillings any object. There are undoubtedly many who could not
      say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am
      removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters.”

      Mr. Wickham’s attention was caught; and after observing Mr.
      Collins for a few moments, he asked Elizabeth in a low voice
      whether her relation was very intimately acquainted with the
      family of de Bourgh.

      “Lady Catherine de Bourgh,” she replied, “has very lately given
      him a living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced
      to her notice, but he certainly has not known her long.”

      “You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne
      Darcy were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present
      Mr. Darcy.”

      “No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine’s
      connections. I never heard of her existence till the day before
      yesterday.”

      “Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune,
      and it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two
      estates.”

      This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor
      Miss Bingley. Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and
      useless her affection for his sister and her praise of himself,
      if he were already self-destined for another.

      “Mr. Collins,” said she, “speaks highly both of Lady Catherine
      and her daughter; but from some particulars that he has related
      of her ladyship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him, and that
      in spite of her being his patroness, she is an arrogant,
      conceited woman.”

      “I believe her to be both in a great degree,” replied Wickham; “I
      have not seen her for many years, but I very well remember that I
      never liked her, and that her manners were dictatorial and
      insolent. She has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and
      clever; but I rather believe she derives part of her abilities
      from her rank and fortune, part from her authoritative manner,
      and the rest from the pride of her nephew, who chooses that
      everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the
      first class.”

      Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of
      it, and they continued talking together, with mutual satisfaction
      till supper put an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies
      their share of Mr. Wickham’s attentions. There could be no
      conversation in the noise of Mrs. Phillips’s supper party, but
      his manners recommended him to everybody. Whatever he said, was
      said well; and whatever he did, done gracefully. Elizabeth went
      away with her head full of him. She could think of nothing but of
      Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all the way home; but
      there was not time for her even to mention his name as they went,
      for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lydia talked
      incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the
      fish she had won; and Mr. Collins in describing the civility of
      Mr. and Mrs. Phillips, protesting that he did not in the least
      regard his losses at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper,
      and repeatedly fearing that he crowded his cousins, had more to
      say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at
      Longbourn House.




Chapter 17

      Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between
      Mr. Wickham and herself. Jane listened with astonishment and
      concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so
      unworthy of Mr. Bingley’s regard; and yet, it was not in her
      nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable
      appearance as Wickham. The possibility of his having endured such
      unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and
      nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them
      both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account
      of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.

      “They have both,” said she, “been deceived, I dare say, in some
      way or other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people
      have perhaps misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short,
      impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which
      may have alienated them, without actual blame on either side.”

      “Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to
      say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been
      concerned in the business? Do clear _them_ too, or we shall be
      obliged to think ill of somebody.”

      “Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my
      opinion. My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful
      light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father’s favourite
      in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide
      for. It is impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had
      any value for his character, could be capable of it. Can his most
      intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him? Oh! no.”

      “I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley’s being imposed on,
      than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as
      he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without
      ceremony. If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides,
      there was truth in his looks.”

      “It is difficult indeed—it is distressing. One does not know what
      to think.”

      “I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.”

      But Jane could think with certainty on only one point—that Mr.
      Bingley, if he _had been_ imposed on, would have much to suffer
      when the affair became public.

      The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this
      conversation passed, by the arrival of the very persons of whom
      they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give
      their personal invitation for the long-expected ball at
      Netherfield, which was fixed for the following Tuesday. The two
      ladies were delighted to see their dear friend again, called it
      an age since they had met, and repeatedly asked what she had been
      doing with herself since their separation. To the rest of the
      family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much
      as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to
      the others. They were soon gone again, rising from their seats
      with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and
      hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. Bennet’s civilities.

      The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to
      every female of the family. Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as
      given in compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly
      flattered by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself,
      instead of a ceremonious card. Jane pictured to herself a happy
      evening in the society of her two friends, and the attentions of
      their brother; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a
      great deal with Mr. Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of
      everything in Mr. Darcy’s look and behaviour. The happiness
      anticipated by Catherine and Lydia depended less on any single
      event, or any particular person, for though they each, like
      Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, he
      was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a
      ball was, at any rate, a ball. And even Mary could assure her
      family that she had no disinclination for it.

      “While I can have my mornings to myself,” said she, “it is
      enough—I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening
      engagements. Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself
      one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement
      as desirable for everybody.”

      Elizabeth’s spirits were so high on this occasion, that though
      she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could
      not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley’s
      invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to
      join in the evening’s amusement; and she was rather surprised to
      find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and
      was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop,
      or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.

      “I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you,” said he, “that a
      ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to
      respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far
      from objecting to dancing myself, that I shall hope to be
      honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of
      the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours,
      Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference
      which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause,
      and not to any disrespect for her.”

      Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in. She had fully
      proposed being engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and
      to have Mr. Collins instead! her liveliness had never been worse
      timed. There was no help for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness
      and her own were perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr.
      Collins’s proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
      She was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea
      it suggested of something more. It now first struck her, that
      _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of being
      mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a
      quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible
      visitors. The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed
      his increasing civilities toward herself, and heard his frequent
      attempt at a compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more
      astonished than gratified herself by this effect of her charms,
      it was not long before her mother gave her to understand that the
      probability of their marriage was extremely agreeable to _her_.
      Elizabeth, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well
      aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any
      reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till he did,
      it was useless to quarrel about him.

      If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk
      of, the younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable
      state at this time, for from the day of the invitation, to the
      day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented
      their walking to Meryton once. No aunt, no officers, no news
      could be sought after—the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were
      got by proxy. Even Elizabeth might have found some trial of her
      patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of
      her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance
      on Tuesday, could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and
      Monday endurable to Kitty and Lydia.




Chapter 18

      Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and
      looked in vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats
      there assembled, a doubt of his being present had never occurred
      to her. The certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any
      of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed
      her. She had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in
      the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained
      unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than might
      be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the
      dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted for Mr. Darcy’s
      pleasure in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though
      this was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence
      was pronounced by his friend Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly
      applied, and who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to
      town on business the day before, and was not yet returned;
      adding, with a significant smile, “I do not imagine his business
      would have called him away just now, if he had not wanted to
      avoid a certain gentleman here.”

      This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was
      caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not
      less answerable for Wickham’s absence than if her first surmise
      had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former
      was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could
      hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite enquiries
      which he directly afterwards approached to make. Attendance,
      forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham. She was
      resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned
      away with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly
      surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality
      provoked her.

      But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour; and though every
      prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not
      dwell long on her spirits; and having told all her griefs to
      Charlotte Lucas, whom she had not seen for a week, she was soon
      able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her
      cousin, and to point him out to her particular notice. The first
      two dances, however, brought a return of distress; they were
      dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and solemn,
      apologising instead of attending, and often moving wrong without
      being aware of it, gave her all the shame and misery which a
      disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment
      of her release from him was ecstasy.

      She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of
      talking of Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
      When those dances were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and
      was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly
      addressed by Mr. Darcy who took her so much by surprise in his
      application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she
      accepted him. He walked away again immediately, and she was left
      to fret over her own want of presence of mind; Charlotte tried to
      console her:

      “I dare say you will find him very agreeable.”

      “Heaven forbid! _That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all!
      To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not
      wish me such an evil.”

      When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to
      claim her hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her in a
      whisper, not to be a simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham
      to make her appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man ten times his
      consequence. Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the
      set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being
      allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in her
      neighbours’ looks, their equal amazement in beholding it. They
      stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to
      imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances,
      and at first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying
      that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige
      him to talk, she made some slight observation on the dance. He
      replied, and was again silent. After a pause of some minutes, she
      addressed him a second time with:—“It is _your_ turn to say
      something now, Mr. Darcy. _I_ talked about the dance, and _you_
      ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the room, or the
      number of couples.”

      He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say
      should be said.

      “Very well. That reply will do for the present. Perhaps by and by
      I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public
      ones. But _now_ we may be silent.”

      “Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”

      “Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd
      to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the
      advantage of _some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as
      that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible.”

      “Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do
      you imagine that you are gratifying mine?”

      “Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great
      similarity in the turn of our minds. We are each of an unsocial,
      taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say
      something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to
      posterity with all the _éclat_ of a proverb.”

      “This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am
      sure,” said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend
      to say. _You_ think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly.”

      “I must not decide on my own performance.”

      He made no answer, and they were again silent till they had gone
      down the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not
      very often walk to Meryton. She answered in the affirmative, and,
      unable to resist the temptation, added, “When you met us there
      the other day, we had just been forming a new acquaintance.”

      The effect was immediate. A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread
      his features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though
      blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on. At length
      Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, “Mr. Wickham is
      blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his _making_
      friends—whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them, is
      less certain.”

      “He has been so unlucky as to lose _your_ friendship,” replied
      Elizabeth with emphasis, “and in a manner which he is likely to
      suffer from all his life.”

      Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the
      subject. At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to
      them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the
      room; but on perceiving Mr. Darcy, he stopped with a bow of
      superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his
      partner.

      “I have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear sir. Such very
      superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong
      to the first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair
      partner does not disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this
      pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable
      event, my dear Eliza (glancing at her sister and Bingley) shall
      take place. What congratulations will then flow in! I appeal to
      Mr. Darcy:—but let me not interrupt you, sir. You will not thank
      me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young
      lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.”

      The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but
      Sir William’s allusion to his friend seemed to strike him
      forcibly, and his eyes were directed with a very serious
      expression towards Bingley and Jane, who were dancing together.
      Recovering himself, however, shortly, he turned to his partner,
      and said, “Sir William’s interruption has made me forget what we
      were talking of.”

      “I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not
      have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for
      themselves. We have tried two or three subjects already without
      success, and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.”

      “What think you of books?” said he, smiling.

      “Books—oh! no. I am sure we never read the same, or not with the
      same feelings.”

      “I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at
      least be no want of subject. We may compare our different
      opinions.”

      “No—I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full
      of something else.”

      “The _present_ always occupies you in such scenes—does it?” said
      he, with a look of doubt.

      “Yes, always,” she replied, without knowing what she said, for
      her thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon
      afterwards appeared by her suddenly exclaiming, “I remember
      hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy, that you hardly ever forgave,
      that your resentment once created was unappeasable. You are very
      cautious, I suppose, as to its _being created?_”

      “I am,” said he, with a firm voice.

      “And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?”

      “I hope not.”

      “It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their
      opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first.”

      “May I ask to what these questions tend?”

      “Merely to the illustration of _your_ character,” said she,
      endeavouring to shake off her gravity. “I am trying to make it
      out.”

      “And what is your success?”

      She shook her head. “I do not get on at all. I hear such
      different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.”

      “I can readily believe,” answered he gravely, “that reports may
      vary greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet,
      that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment,
      as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no
      credit on either.”

      “But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
      opportunity.”

      “I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,” he coldly
      replied. She said no more, and they went down the other dance and
      parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to
      an equal degree, for in Darcy’s breast there was a tolerably
      powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and
      directed all his anger against another.

      They had not long separated, when Miss Bingley came towards her,
      and with an expression of civil disdain accosted her:

      “So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George
      Wickham! Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking
      me a thousand questions; and I find that the young man quite
      forgot to tell you, among his other communication, that he was
      the son of old Wickham, the late Mr. Darcy’s steward. Let me
      recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give implicit
      confidence to all his assertions; for as to Mr. Darcy’s using him
      ill, it is perfectly false; for, on the contrary, he has always
      been remarkably kind to him, though George Wickham has treated
      Mr. Darcy in a most infamous manner. I do not know the
      particulars, but I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the
      least to blame, that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham
      mentioned, and that though my brother thought that he could not
      well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he
      was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the
      way. His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing,
      indeed, and I wonder how he could presume to do it. I pity you,
      Miss Eliza, for this discovery of your favourite’s guilt; but
      really, considering his descent, one could not expect much
      better.”

      “His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the
      same,” said Elizabeth angrily; “for I have heard you accuse him
      of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy’s steward,
      and of _that_, I can assure you, he informed me himself.”

      “I beg your pardon,” replied Miss Bingley, turning away with a
      sneer. “Excuse my interference—it was kindly meant.”

      “Insolent girl!” said Elizabeth to herself. “You are much
      mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as
      this. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the
      malice of Mr. Darcy.” She then sought her eldest sister, who had
      undertaken to make enquiries on the same subject of Bingley. Jane
      met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such
      happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well she was
      satisfied with the occurrences of the evening. Elizabeth
      instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for
      Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else,
      gave way before the hope of Jane’s being in the fairest way for
      happiness.

      “I want to know,” said she, with a countenance no less smiling
      than her sister’s, “what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But
      perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any
      third person; in which case you may be sure of my pardon.”

      “No,” replied Jane, “I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing
      satisfactory to tell you. Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of
      his history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which
      have principally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the
      good conduct, the probity, and honour of his friend, and is
      perfectly convinced that Mr. Wickham has deserved much less
      attention from Mr. Darcy than he has received; and I am sorry to
      say by his account as well as his sister’s, Mr. Wickham is by no
      means a respectable young man. I am afraid he has been very
      imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy’s regard.”

      “Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself?”

      “No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton.”

      “This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy. I am
      satisfied. But what does he say of the living?”

      “He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has
      heard them from Mr. Darcy more than once, but he believes that it
      was left to him _conditionally_ only.”

      “I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley’s sincerity,” said Elizabeth
      warmly; “but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances
      only. Mr. Bingley’s defense of his friend was a very able one, I
      dare say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the
      story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall
      venture to still think of both gentlemen as I did before.”

      She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each,
      and on which there could be no difference of sentiment. Elizabeth
      listened with delight to the happy, though modest hopes which
      Jane entertained of Mr. Bingley’s regard, and said all in her
      power to heighten her confidence in it. On their being joined by
      Mr. Bingley himself, Elizabeth withdrew to Miss Lucas; to whose
      enquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she had
      scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them, and told
      her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as
      to make a most important discovery.

      “I have found out,” said he, “by a singular accident, that there
      is now in the room a near relation of my patroness. I happened to
      overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who
      does the honours of the house the names of his cousin Miss de
      Bourgh, and of her mother Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these
      sort of things occur! Who would have thought of my meeting with,
      perhaps, a nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly! I
      am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay
      my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust he will
      excuse my not having done it before. My total ignorance of the
      connection must plead my apology.”

      “You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr. Darcy!”

      “Indeed I am. I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it
      earlier. I believe him to be Lady Catherine’s _nephew_. It will
      be in my power to assure him that her ladyship was quite well
      yesterday se’nnight.”

      Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme, assuring
      him that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without
      introduction as an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment
      to his aunt; that it was not in the least necessary there should
      be any notice on either side; and that if it were, it must belong
      to Mr. Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the
      acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined air
      of following his own inclination, and, when she ceased speaking,
      replied thus:

      “My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world
      in your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of
      your understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a
      wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst
      the laity, and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me
      leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in
      point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom—provided
      that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time
      maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the dictates of
      my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to perform what I
      look on as a point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by
      your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant
      guide, though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted
      by education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a
      young lady like yourself.” And with a low bow he left her to
      attack Mr. Darcy, whose reception of his advances she eagerly
      watched, and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very
      evident. Her cousin prefaced his speech with a solemn bow and
      though she could not hear a word of it, she felt as if hearing it
      all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology,”
      “Hunsford,” and “Lady Catherine de Bourgh.” It vexed her to see
      him expose himself to such a man. Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with
      unrestrained wonder, and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him
      time to speak, replied with an air of distant civility. Mr.
      Collins, however, was not discouraged from speaking again, and
      Mr. Darcy’s contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length
      of his second speech, and at the end of it he only made him a
      slight bow, and moved another way. Mr. Collins then returned to
      Elizabeth.

      “I have no reason, I assure you,” said he, “to be dissatisfied
      with my reception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the
      attention. He answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid
      me the compliment of saying that he was so well convinced of Lady
      Catherine’s discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a
      favour unworthily. It was really a very handsome thought. Upon
      the whole, I am much pleased with him.”

      As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she
      turned her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr.
      Bingley; and the train of agreeable reflections which her
      observations gave birth to, made her perhaps almost as happy as
      Jane. She saw her in idea settled in that very house, in all the
      felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow; and she
      felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring even to
      like Bingley’s two sisters. Her mother’s thoughts she plainly saw
      were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near
      her, lest she might hear too much. When they sat down to supper,
      therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which
      placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to
      find that her mother was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas)
      freely, openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane
      would soon be married to Mr. Bingley. It was an animating
      subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while
      enumerating the advantages of the match. His being such a
      charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from
      them, were the first points of self-gratulation; and then it was
      such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane,
      and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as
      she could do. It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her
      younger daughters, as Jane’s marrying so greatly must throw them
      in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at
      her time of life to be able to consign her single daughters to
      the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go
      into company more than she liked. It was necessary to make this
      circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it
      is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs. Bennet to
      find comfort in staying home at any period of her life. She
      concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be
      equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing
      there was no chance of it.

      In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her
      mother’s words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a
      less audible whisper; for, to her inexpressible vexation, she
      could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy,
      who sat opposite to them. Her mother only scolded her for being
      nonsensical.

      “What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I
      am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged
      to say nothing _he_ may not like to hear.”

      “For heaven’s sake, madam, speak lower. What advantage can it be
      for you to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to
      his friend by so doing!”

      Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence. Her
      mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
      Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation. She
      could not help frequently glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though
      every glance convinced her of what she dreaded; for though he was
      not always looking at her mother, she was convinced that his
      attention was invariably fixed by her. The expression of his face
      changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
      steady gravity.

      At length, however, Mrs. Bennet had no more to say; and Lady
      Lucas, who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights
      which she saw no likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts
      of cold ham and chicken. Elizabeth now began to revive. But not
      long was the interval of tranquillity; for, when supper was over,
      singing was talked of, and she had the mortification of seeing
      Mary, after very little entreaty, preparing to oblige the
      company. By many significant looks and silent entreaties, did she
      endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance, but in vain;
      Mary would not understand them; such an opportunity of exhibiting
      was delightful to her, and she began her song. Elizabeth’s eyes
      were fixed on her with most painful sensations, and she watched
      her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which
      was very ill rewarded at their close; for Mary, on receiving,
      amongst the thanks of the table, the hint of a hope that she
      might be prevailed on to favour them again, after the pause of
      half a minute began another. Mary’s powers were by no means
      fitted for such a display; her voice was weak, and her manner
      affected. Elizabeth was in agonies. She looked at Jane, to see
      how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley.
      She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of
      derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
      imperturbably grave. She looked at her father to entreat his
      interference, lest Mary should be singing all night. He took the
      hint, and when Mary had finished her second song, said aloud,
      “That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long
      enough. Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.”

      Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted;
      and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father’s speech,
      was afraid her anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were
      now applied to.

      “If I,” said Mr. Collins, “were so fortunate as to be able to
      sing, I should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the
      company with an air; for I consider music as a very innocent
      diversion, and perfectly compatible with the profession of a
      clergyman. I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be
      justified in devoting too much of our time to music, for there
      are certainly other things to be attended to. The rector of a
      parish has much to do. In the first place, he must make such an
      agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not
      offensive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the
      time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and
      the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be
      excused from making as comfortable as possible. And I do not
      think it of light importance that he should have attentive and
      conciliatory manners towards everybody, especially towards those
      to whom he owes his preferment. I cannot acquit him of that duty;
      nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of
      testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the
      family.” And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech,
      which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
      Many stared—many smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr.
      Bennet himself, while his wife seriously commended Mr. Collins
      for having spoken so sensibly, and observed in a half-whisper to
      Lady Lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young
      man.

      To Elizabeth it appeared that, had her family made an agreement
      to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it
      would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more
      spirit or finer success; and happy did she think it for Bingley
      and her sister that some of the exhibition had escaped his
      notice, and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much
      distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed. That his
      two sisters and Mr. Darcy, however, should have such an
      opportunity of ridiculing her relations, was bad enough, and she
      could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman,
      or the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.

      The rest of the evening brought her little amusement. She was
      teased by Mr. Collins, who continued most perseveringly by her
      side, and though he could not prevail on her to dance with him
      again, put it out of her power to dance with others. In vain did
      she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offer to
      introduce him to any young lady in the room. He assured her, that
      as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it; that his chief
      object was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to her and
      that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her
      the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a project. She
      owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often
      joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins’s
      conversation to herself.

      She was at least free from the offense of Mr. Darcy’s further
      notice; though often standing within a very short distance of
      her, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. She
      felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to Mr.
      Wickham, and rejoiced in it.

      The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart,
      and, by a manoeuvre of Mrs. Bennet, had to wait for their
      carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone,
      which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by
      some of the family. Mrs. Hurst and her sister scarcely opened
      their mouths, except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently
      impatient to have the house to themselves. They repulsed every
      attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and by so doing threw a
      languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by
      the long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr.
      Bingley and his sisters on the elegance of their entertainment,
      and the hospitality and politeness which had marked their
      behaviour to their guests. Darcy said nothing at all. Mr. Bennet,
      in equal silence, was enjoying the scene. Mr. Bingley and Jane
      were standing together, a little detached from the rest, and
      talked only to each other. Elizabeth preserved as steady a
      silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was
      too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation
      of “Lord, how tired I am!” accompanied by a violent yawn.

      When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most
      pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at
      Longbourn, and addressed herself especially to Mr. Bingley, to
      assure him how happy he would make them by eating a family dinner
      with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal
      invitation. Bingley was all grateful pleasure, and he readily
      engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her,
      after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the
      next day for a short time.

      Mrs. Bennet was perfectly satisfied, and quitted the house under
      the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary
      preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes,
      she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at Netherfield in
      the course of three or four months. Of having another daughter
      married to Mr. Collins, she thought with equal certainty, and
      with considerable, though not equal, pleasure. Elizabeth was the
      least dear to her of all her children; and though the man and the
      match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each was
      eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.




Chapter 19

      The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made
      his declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of
      time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following
      Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it
      distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a
      very orderly manner, with all the observances, which he supposed
      a regular part of the business. On finding Mrs. Bennet,
      Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon after
      breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words:

      “May I hope, madam, for your interest with your fair daughter
      Elizabeth, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience
      with her in the course of this morning?”

      Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise,
      Mrs. Bennet answered instantly, “Oh dear!—yes—certainly. I am
      sure Lizzy will be very happy—I am sure she can have no
      objection. Come, Kitty, I want you up stairs.” And, gathering her
      work together, she was hastening away, when Elizabeth called out:

      “Dear madam, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must
      excuse me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not
      hear. I am going away myself.”

      “No, no, nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you to stay where you are.”
      And upon Elizabeth’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed
      looks, about to escape, she added: “Lizzy, I _insist_ upon your
      staying and hearing Mr. Collins.”

      Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction—and a moment’s
      consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to
      get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down
      again and tried to conceal, by incessant employment the feelings
      which were divided between distress and diversion. Mrs. Bennet
      and Kitty walked off, and as soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins
      began.

      “Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far
      from doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other
      perfections. You would have been less amiable in my eyes had
      there _not_ been this little unwillingness; but allow me to
      assure you, that I have your respected mother’s permission for
      this address. You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse,
      however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my
      attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as soon as
      I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my
      future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
      subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons
      for marrying—and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with
      the design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.”

      The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run
      away with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that
      she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to
      stop him further, and he continued:

      “My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right
      thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to
      set the example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am
      convinced that it will add very greatly to my happiness; and
      thirdly—which perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it
      is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble
      lady whom I have the honour of calling patroness. Twice has she
      condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too!) on this
      subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left
      Hunsford—between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. Jenkinson was
      arranging Miss de Bourgh’s footstool, that she said, ‘Mr.
      Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose
      properly, choose a gentlewoman for _my_ sake; and for your _own_,
      let her be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high,
      but able to make a small income go a good way. This is my advice.
      Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and
      I will visit her.’ Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair
      cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady
      Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my
      power to offer. You will find her manners beyond anything I can
      describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be acceptable
      to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
      which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general
      intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my
      views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own
      neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable
      young women. But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit
      this estate after the death of your honoured father (who,
      however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy myself
      without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that
      the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the
      melancholy event takes place—which, however, as I have already
      said, may not be for several years. This has been my motive, my
      fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your
      esteem. And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the
      most animated language of the violence of my affection. To
      fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of
      that nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could
      not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the four
      per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother’s
      decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head,
      therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure
      yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when
      we are married.”

      It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.

      “You are too hasty, sir,” she cried. “You forget that I have made
      no answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my
      thanks for the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible
      of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to
      do otherwise than to decline them.”

      “I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave
      of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the
      addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he
      first applies for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is
      repeated a second, or even a third time. I am therefore by no
      means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to
      lead you to the altar ere long.”

      “Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is a rather
      extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am
      not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are)
      who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of
      being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal.
      You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the
      last woman in the world who could make you so. Nay, were your
      friend Lady Catherine to know me, I am persuaded she would find
      me in every respect ill qualified for the situation.”

      “Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,” said Mr.
      Collins very gravely—“but I cannot imagine that her ladyship
      would at all disapprove of you. And you may be certain when I
      have the honour of seeing her again, I shall speak in the very
      highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable
      qualification.”

      “Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You
      must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment
      of believing what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and
      by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being
      otherwise. In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the
      delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take
      possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any
      self-reproach. This matter may be considered, therefore, as
      finally settled.” And rising as she thus spoke, she would have
      quitted the room, had Mr. Collins not thus addressed her:

      “When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the
      subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than
      you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of
      cruelty at present, because I know it to be the established
      custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and
      perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as
      would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female
      character.”

      “Really, Mr. Collins,” cried Elizabeth with some warmth, “you
      puzzle me exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to
      you in the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my
      refusal in such a way as to convince you of its being one.”

      “You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that
      your refusal of my addresses is merely words of course. My
      reasons for believing it are briefly these: It does not appear to
      me that my hand is unworthy of your acceptance, or that the
      establishment I can offer would be any other than highly
      desirable. My situation in life, my connections with the family
      of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances
      highly in my favour; and you should take it into further
      consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is
      by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be
      made you. Your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all
      likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable
      qualifications. As I must therefore conclude that you are not
      serious in your rejection of me, I shall choose to attribute it
      to your wish of increasing my love by suspense, according to the
      usual practice of elegant females.”

      “I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to
      that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable
      man. I would rather be paid the compliment of being believed
      sincere. I thank you again and again for the honour you have done
      me in your proposals, but to accept them is absolutely
      impossible. My feelings in every respect forbid it. Can I speak
      plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant female, intending
      to plague you, but as a rational creature, speaking the truth
      from her heart.”

      “You are uniformly charming!” cried he, with an air of awkward
      gallantry; “and I am persuaded that when sanctioned by the
      express authority of both your excellent parents, my proposals
      will not fail of being acceptable.”

      To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would
      make no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew;
      determined, if he persisted in considering her repeated refusals
      as flattering encouragement, to apply to her father, whose
      negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive, and
      whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the
      affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.




Chapter 20

      Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his
      successful love; for Mrs. Bennet, having dawdled about in the
      vestibule to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw
      Elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the
      staircase, than she entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated
      both him and herself in warm terms on the happy prospect of their
      nearer connection. Mr. Collins received and returned these
      felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate
      the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he
      trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal
      which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
      from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her
      character.

      This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet; she would have
      been glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to
      encourage him by protesting against his proposals, but she dared
      not believe it, and could not help saying so.

      “But, depend upon it, Mr. Collins,” she added, “that Lizzy shall
      be brought to reason. I will speak to her about it directly. She
      is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own
      interest but I will _make_ her know it.”

      “Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,” cried Mr. Collins; “but
      if she is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she
      would altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my
      situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage
      state. If therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit,
      perhaps it were better not to force her into accepting me,
      because if liable to such defects of temper, she could not
      contribute much to my felicity.”

      “Sir, you quite misunderstand me,” said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
      “Lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything
      else she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived. I will go
      directly to Mr. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with
      her, I am sure.”

      She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to
      her husband, called out as she entered the library, “Oh! Mr.
      Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar. You
      must come and make Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will
      not have him, and if you do not make haste he will change his
      mind and not have _her_.”

      Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and
      fixed them on her face with a calm unconcern which was not in the
      least altered by her communication.

      “I have not the pleasure of understanding you,” said he, when she
      had finished her speech. “Of what are you talking?”

      “Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have Mr.
      Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have
      Lizzy.”

      “And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems an hopeless
      business.”

      “Speak to Lizzy about it yourself. Tell her that you insist upon
      her marrying him.”

      “Let her be called down. She shall hear my opinion.”

      Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the
      library.

      “Come here, child,” cried her father as she appeared. “I have
      sent for you on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr.
      Collins has made you an offer of marriage. Is it true?” Elizabeth
      replied that it was. “Very well—and this offer of marriage you
      have refused?”

      “I have, sir.”

      “Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon
      your accepting it. Is it not so, Mrs. Bennet?”

      “Yes, or I will never see her again.”

      “An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day
      you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will
      never see you again if you do _not_ marry Mr. Collins, and I will
      never see you again if you _do_.”

      Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a
      beginning, but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her
      husband regarded the affair as she wished, was excessively
      disappointed.

      “What do you mean, Mr. Bennet, in talking this way? You promised
      me to _insist_ upon her marrying him.”

      “My dear,” replied her husband, “I have two small favours to
      request. First, that you will allow me the free use of my
      understanding on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room.
      I shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be.”

      Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband,
      did Mrs. Bennet give up the point. She talked to Elizabeth again
      and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns. She endeavoured to
      secure Jane in her interest; but Jane, with all possible
      mildness, declined interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with
      real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to
      her attacks. Though her manner varied, however, her determination
      never did.

      Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had
      passed. He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what
      motives his cousin could refuse him; and though his pride was
      hurt, he suffered in no other way. His regard for her was quite
      imaginary; and the possibility of her deserving her mother’s
      reproach prevented his feeling any regret.

      While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to
      spend the day with them. She was met in the vestibule by Lydia,
      who, flying to her, cried in a half whisper, “I am glad you are
      come, for there is such fun here! What do you think has happened
      this morning? Mr. Collins has made an offer to Lizzy, and she
      will not have him.”

      Charlotte hardly had time to answer, before they were joined by
      Kitty, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they
      entered the breakfast-room, where Mrs. Bennet was alone, than she
      likewise began on the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her
      compassion, and entreating her to persuade her friend Lizzy to
      comply with the wishes of all her family. “Pray do, my dear Miss
      Lucas,” she added in a melancholy tone, “for nobody is on my
      side, nobody takes part with me. I am cruelly used, nobody feels
      for my poor nerves.”

      Charlotte’s reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and
      Elizabeth.

      “Aye, there she comes,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “looking as
      unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were
      at York, provided she can have her own way. But I tell you, Miss
      Lizzy—if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer
      of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all—and
      I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father
      is dead. _I_ shall not be able to keep you—and so I warn you. I
      have done with you from this very day. I told you in the library,
      you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will
      find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking to
      undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in
      talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous
      complaints can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can
      tell what I suffer! But it is always so. Those who do not
      complain are never pitied.”

      Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that
      any attempt to reason with her or soothe her would only increase
      the irritation. She talked on, therefore, without interruption
      from any of them, till they were joined by Mr. Collins, who
      entered the room with an air more stately than usual, and on
      perceiving whom, she said to the girls, “Now, I do insist upon
      it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let me and Mr.
      Collins have a little conversation together.”

      Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room, Jane and Kitty
      followed, but Lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she
      could; and Charlotte, detained first by the civility of Mr.
      Collins, whose enquiries after herself and all her family were
      very minute, and then by a little curiosity, satisfied herself
      with walking to the window and pretending not to hear. In a
      doleful voice Mrs. Bennet began the projected conversation: “Oh!
      Mr. Collins!”

      “My dear madam,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this
      point. Far be it from me,” he presently continued, in a voice
      that marked his displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your
      daughter. Resignation to inevitable evils is the duty of us all;
      the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as I
      have been in early preferment; and I trust I am resigned. Perhaps
      not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had
      my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for I have often
      observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the
      blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our
      estimation. You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any
      disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my
      pretensions to your daughter’s favour, without having paid
      yourself and Mr. Bennet the compliment of requesting you to
      interpose your authority in my behalf. My conduct may, I fear, be
      objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your
      daughter’s lips instead of your own. But we are all liable to
      error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair. My
      object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with
      due consideration for the advantage of all your family, and if my
      _manner_ has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to
      apologise.”




Chapter 21

      The discussion of Mr. Collins’s offer was now nearly at an end,
      and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings
      necessarily attending it, and occasionally from some peevish
      allusions of her mother. As for the gentleman himself, _his_
      feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or
      dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by stiffness of manner
      and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to her, and the
      assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself
      were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
      civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all,
      and especially to her friend.

      The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet’s ill-humour or
      ill health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry
      pride. Elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his
      visit, but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it.
      He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he meant
      to stay.

      After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to enquire if Mr.
      Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the
      Netherfield ball. He joined them on their entering the town, and
      attended them to their aunt’s where his regret and vexation, and
      the concern of everybody, was well talked over. To Elizabeth,
      however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his
      absence _had_ been self-imposed.

      “I found,” said he, “as the time drew near that I had better not
      meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with
      him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear,
      and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself.”

      She highly approved his forbearance, and they had leisure for a
      full discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they
      civilly bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer
      walked back with them to Longbourn, and during the walk he
      particularly attended to her. His accompanying them was a double
      advantage; she felt all the compliment it offered to herself, and
      it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her
      father and mother.

      Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet;
      it came from Netherfield. The envelope contained a sheet of
      elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady’s
      fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sister’s countenance
      change as she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some
      particular passages. Jane recollected herself soon, and putting
      the letter away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the
      general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the
      subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no
      sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from
      Jane invited her to follow her up stairs. When they had gained
      their own room, Jane, taking out the letter, said:

      “This is from Caroline Bingley; what it contains has surprised me
      a good deal. The whole party have left Netherfield by this time,
      and are on their way to town—and without any intention of coming
      back again. You shall hear what she says.”

      She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the
      information of their having just resolved to follow their brother
      to town directly, and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor
      Street, where Mr. Hurst had a house. The next was in these words:
      “I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in
      Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we
      will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that
      delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may
      lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most
      unreserved correspondence. I depend on you for that.” To these
      highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the
      insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their
      removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it
      was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would
      prevent Mr. Bingley’s being there; and as to the loss of their
      society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in
      the enjoyment of his.

      “It is unlucky,” said she, after a short pause, “that you should
      not be able to see your friends before they leave the country.
      But may we not hope that the period of future happiness to which
      Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is aware,
      and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends
      will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters? Mr.
      Bingley will not be detained in London by them.”

      “Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into
      Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you:”

      “When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business
      which took him to London might be concluded in three or four
      days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time
      convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry
      to leave it again, we have determined on following him thither,
      that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a
      comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintances are already there for
      the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend,
      had any intention of making one of the crowd—but of that I
      despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may
      abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and
      that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling
      the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you.”

      “It is evident by this,” added Jane, “that he comes back no more
      this winter.”

      “It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he
      _should_.”

      “Why will you think so? It must be his own doing. He is his own
      master. But you do not know _all_. I _will_ read you the passage
      which particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from _you_.”

      “Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his sister; and, to confess the
      truth, _we_ are scarcely less eager to meet her again. I really
      do not think Georgiana Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance,
      and accomplishments; and the affection she inspires in Louisa and
      myself is heightened into something still more interesting, from
      the hope we dare entertain of her being hereafter our sister. I
      do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on
      this subject; but I will not leave the country without confiding
      them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable. My
      brother admires her greatly already; he will have frequent
      opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing; her
      relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a
      sister’s partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call
      Charles most capable of engaging any woman’s heart. With all
      these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to
      prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest Jane, in indulging the hope of
      an event which will secure the happiness of so many?”

      “What do you think of _this_ sentence, my dear Lizzy?” said Jane
      as she finished it. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not
      expressly declare that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to
      be her sister; that she is perfectly convinced of her brother’s
      indifference; and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings
      for him, she means (most kindly!) to put me on my guard? Can
      there be any other opinion on the subject?”

      “Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear
      it?”

      “Most willingly.”

      “You shall have it in a few words. Miss Bingley sees that her
      brother is in love with you, and wants him to marry Miss Darcy.
      She follows him to town in hope of keeping him there, and tries
      to persuade you that he does not care about you.”

      Jane shook her head.

      “Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen
      you together can doubt his affection. Miss Bingley, I am sure,
      cannot. She is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as
      much love in Mr. Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her
      wedding clothes. But the case is this: We are not rich enough or
      grand enough for them; and she is the more anxious to get Miss
      Darcy for her brother, from the notion that when there has been
      _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble in achieving a
      second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I dare
      say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way. But,
      my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss
      Bingley tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is
      in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he
      took leave of you on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to
      persuade him that, instead of being in love with you, he is very
      much in love with her friend.”

      “If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane, “your
      representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know
      the foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully
      deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is that
      she is deceiving herself.”

      “That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea,
      since you will not take comfort in mine. Believe her to be
      deceived, by all means. You have now done your duty by her, and
      must fret no longer.”

      “But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in
      accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to
      marry elsewhere?”

      “You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon
      mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his
      two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his
      wife, I advise you by all means to refuse him.”

      “How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling. “You must know
      that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their
      disapprobation, I could not hesitate.”

      “I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot
      consider your situation with much compassion.”

      “But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
      required. A thousand things may arise in six months!”

      The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the
      utmost contempt. It appeared to her merely the suggestion of
      Caroline’s interested wishes, and she could not for a moment
      suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken,
      could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.

      She represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she
      felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its
      happy effect. Jane’s temper was not desponding, and she was
      gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection
      sometimes overcame the hope, that Bingley would return to
      Netherfield and answer every wish of her heart.

      They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of
      the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s
      conduct; but even this partial communication gave her a great
      deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that
      the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting
      so intimate together. After lamenting it, however, at some
      length, she had the consolation that Mr. Bingley would be soon
      down again and soon dining at Longbourn, and the conclusion of
      all was the comfortable declaration, that though he had been
      invited only to a family dinner, she would take care to have two
      full courses.




Chapter 22

      The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases and again
      during the chief of the day was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen
      to Mr. Collins. Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
      “It keeps him in good humour,” said she, “and I am more obliged
      to you than I can express.” Charlotte assured her friend of her
      satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid her for
      the little sacrifice of her time. This was very amiable, but
      Charlotte’s kindness extended farther than Elizabeth had any
      conception of; its object was nothing else than to secure her
      from any return of Mr. Collins’s addresses, by engaging them
      towards herself. Such was Miss Lucas’s scheme; and appearances
      were so favourable, that when they parted at night, she would
      have felt almost secure of success if he had not been to leave
      Hertfordshire so very soon. But here she did injustice to the
      fire and independence of his character, for it led him to escape
      out of Longbourn House the next morning with admirable slyness,
      and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw himself at her feet. He was
      anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins, from a conviction
      that if they saw him depart, they could not fail to conjecture
      his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known till
      its success might be known likewise; for though feeling almost
      secure, and with reason, for Charlotte had been tolerably
      encouraging, he was comparatively diffident since the adventure
      of Wednesday. His reception, however, was of the most flattering
      kind. Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked
      towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally
      in the lane. But little had she dared to hope that so much love
      and eloquence awaited her there.

      In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow,
      everything was settled between them to the satisfaction of both;
      and as they entered the house he earnestly entreated her to name
      the day that was to make him the happiest of men; and though such
      a solicitation must be waived for the present, the lady felt no
      inclination to trifle with his happiness. The stupidity with
      which he was favoured by nature must guard his courtship from any
      charm that could make a woman wish for its continuance; and Miss
      Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested
      desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that establishment
      were gained.

      Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their
      consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr.
      Collins’s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for
      their daughter, to whom they could give little fortune; and his
      prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair. Lady Lucas
      began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter
      had ever excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was
      likely to live; and Sir William gave it as his decided opinion,
      that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the
      Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and
      his wife should make their appearance at St. James’s. The whole
      family, in short, were properly overjoyed on the occasion. The
      younger girls formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two sooner
      than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved
      from their apprehension of Charlotte’s dying an old maid.
      Charlotte herself was tolerably composed. She had gained her
      point, and had time to consider of it. Her reflections were in
      general satisfactory. Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither
      sensible nor agreeable; his society was irksome, and his
      attachment to her must be imaginary. But still he would be her
      husband. Without thinking highly either of men or matrimony,
      marriage had always been her object; it was the only provision
      for well-educated young women of small fortune, and however
      uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest
      preservative from want. This preservative she had now obtained;
      and at the age of twenty-seven, without having ever been
      handsome, she felt all the good luck of it. The least agreeable
      circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to
      Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she valued beyond that of any
      other person. Elizabeth would wonder, and probably would blame
      her; and though her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings
      must be hurt by such a disapprobation. She resolved to give her
      the information herself, and therefore charged Mr. Collins, when
      he returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had
      passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of
      course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept without
      difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst
      forth in such very direct questions on his return as required
      some ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising
      great self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous
      love.

      As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any
      of the family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when
      the ladies moved for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great
      politeness and cordiality, said how happy they should be to see
      him at Longbourn again, whenever his engagements might allow him
      to visit them.

      “My dear madam,” he replied, “this invitation is particularly
      gratifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and
      you may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon
      as possible.”

      They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means
      wish for so speedy a return, immediately said:

      “But is there not danger of Lady Catherine’s disapprobation here,
      my good sir? You had better neglect your relations than run the
      risk of offending your patroness.”

      “My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to
      you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not
      taking so material a step without her ladyship’s concurrence.”

      “You cannot be too much upon your guard. Risk anything rather
      than her displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by
      your coming to us again, which I should think exceedingly
      probable, stay quietly at home, and be satisfied that _we_ shall
      take no offence.”

      “Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
      affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily
      receive from me a letter of thanks for this, and for every other
      mark of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire. As for my
      fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render
      it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health
      and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth.”

      With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them
      equally surprised that he meditated a quick return. Mrs. Bennet
      wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his
      addresses to one of her younger girls, and Mary might have been
      prevailed on to accept him. She rated his abilities much higher
      than any of the others; there was a solidity in his reflections
      which often struck her, and though by no means so clever as
      herself, she thought that if encouraged to read and improve
      himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
      agreeable companion. But on the following morning, every hope of
      this kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast,
      and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of
      the day before.

      The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with
      her friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or
      two; but that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far
      from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her
      astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first
      the bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out:

      “Engaged to Mr. Collins! My dear Charlotte—impossible!”

      The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling
      her story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so
      direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected,
      she soon regained her composure, and calmly replied:

      “Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it
      incredible that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any woman’s
      good opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with
      you?”

      But Elizabeth had now recollected herself, and making a strong
      effort for it, was able to assure with tolerable firmness that
      the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her,
      and that she wished her all imaginable happiness.

      “I see what you are feeling,” replied Charlotte. “You must be
      surprised, very much surprised—so lately as Mr. Collins was
      wishing to marry you. But when you have had time to think it
      over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done. I am
      not romantic, you know; I never was. I ask only a comfortable
      home; and considering Mr. Collins’s character, connection, and
      situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness
      with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the
      marriage state.”

      Elizabeth quietly answered “Undoubtedly;” and after an awkward
      pause, they returned to the rest of the family. Charlotte did not
      stay much longer, and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what
      she had heard. It was a long time before she became at all
      reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match. The strangeness
      of Mr. Collins’s making two offers of marriage within three days
      was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted. She had
      always felt that Charlotte’s opinion of matrimony was not exactly
      like her own, but she had not supposed it to be possible that,
      when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better
      feeling to worldly advantage. Charlotte the wife of Mr. Collins
      was a most humiliating picture! And to the pang of a friend
      disgracing herself and sunk in her esteem, was added the
      distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to
      be tolerably happy in the lot she had chosen.




Chapter 23

      Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on
      what she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorised to
      mention it, when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his
      daughter, to announce her engagement to the family. With many
      compliments to them, and much self-gratulation on the prospect of
      a connection between the houses, he unfolded the matter—to an
      audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet,
      with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be
      entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil,
      boisterously exclaimed:

      “Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not
      you know that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?”

      Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
      without anger such treatment; but Sir William’s good breeding
      carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be
      positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all
      their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.

      Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so
      unpleasant a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his
      account, by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte
      herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her
      mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to
      Sir William, in which she was readily joined by Jane, and by
      making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be
      expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins,
      and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.

      Mrs. Bennet was in fact too much overpowered to say a great deal
      while Sir William remained; but no sooner had he left them than
      her feelings found a rapid vent. In the first place, she
      persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, she
      was very sure that Mr. Collins had been taken in; thirdly, she
      trusted that they would never be happy together; and fourthly,
      that the match might be broken off. Two inferences, however, were
      plainly deduced from the whole: one, that Elizabeth was the real
      cause of the mischief; and the other that she herself had been
      barbarously misused by them all; and on these two points she
      principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could
      console and nothing could appease her. Nor did that day wear out
      her resentment. A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth
      without scolding her, a month passed away before she could speak
      to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude, and many months
      were gone before she could at all forgive their daughter.

      Mr. Bennet’s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion,
      and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most
      agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that
      Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably
      sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his
      daughter!

      Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she
      said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for
      their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it
      as improbable. Kitty and Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas,
      for Mr. Collins was only a clergyman; and it affected them in no
      other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.

      Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to
      retort on Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well
      married; and she called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to
      say how happy she was, though Mrs. Bennet’s sour looks and
      ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness
      away.

      Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept
      them mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded
      that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again.
      Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard
      to her sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her
      opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew
      daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and
      nothing more was heard of his return.

      Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was
      counting the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again.
      The promised letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on
      Tuesday, addressed to their father, and written with all the
      solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonth’s abode in the family
      might have prompted. After discharging his conscience on that
      head, he proceeded to inform them, with many rapturous
      expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection of
      their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it
      was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been
      so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at
      Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday
      fortnight; for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his
      marriage, that she wished it to take place as soon as possible,
      which he trusted would be an unanswerable argument with his
      amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him the
      happiest of men.

      Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
      pleasure to Mrs. Bennet. On the contrary, she was as much
      disposed to complain of it as her husband. It was very strange
      that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it
      was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome. She hated
      having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent,
      and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable. Such were
      the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they gave way only to the
      greater distress of Mr. Bingley’s continued absence.

      Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject. Day
      after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him
      than the report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming
      no more to Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly
      incensed Mrs. Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as
      a most scandalous falsehood.

      Even Elizabeth began to fear—not that Bingley was indifferent—but
      that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
      Unwilling as she was to admit an idea so destructive of Jane’s
      happiness, and so dishonorable to the stability of her lover, she
      could not prevent its frequently occurring. The united efforts of
      his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend,
      assisted by the attractions of Miss Darcy and the amusements of
      London might be too much, she feared, for the strength of his
      attachment.

      As for Jane, _her_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course,
      more painful than Elizabeth’s, but whatever she felt she was
      desirous of concealing, and between herself and Elizabeth,
      therefore, the subject was never alluded to. But as no such
      delicacy restrained her mother, an hour seldom passed in which
      she did not talk of Bingley, express her impatience for his
      arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he did not come
      back she would think herself very ill used. It needed all Jane’s
      steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable
      tranquillity.

      Mr. Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight, but his
      reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been
      on his first introduction. He was too happy, however, to need
      much attention; and luckily for the others, the business of
      love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company. The
      chief of every day was spent by him at Lucas Lodge, and he
      sometimes returned to Longbourn only in time to make an apology
      for his absence before the family went to bed.

      Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The very mention
      of anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of
      ill-humour, and wherever she went she was sure of hearing it
      talked of. The sight of Miss Lucas was odious to her. As her
      successor in that house, she regarded her with jealous
      abhorrence. Whenever Charlotte came to see them, she concluded
      her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever she
      spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that they were
      talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself
      and her daughters out of the house, as soon as Mr. Bennet were
      dead. She complained bitterly of all this to her husband.

      “Indeed, Mr. Bennet,” said she, “it is very hard to think that
      Charlotte Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that _I_
      should be forced to make way for _her_, and live to see her take
      her place in it!”

      “My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope
      for better things. Let us flatter ourselves that _I_ may be the
      survivor.”

      This was not very consoling to Mrs. Bennet, and therefore,
      instead of making any answer, she went on as before.

      “I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If
      it was not for the entail, I should not mind it.”

      “What should not you mind?”

      “I should not mind anything at all.”

      “Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such
      insensibility.”

      “I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the
      entail. How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an
      estate from one’s own daughters, I cannot understand; and all for
      the sake of Mr. Collins too! Why should _he_ have it more than
      anybody else?”

      “I leave it to yourself to determine,” said Mr. Bennet.




Chapter 24

      Miss Bingley’s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very
      first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled
      in London for the winter, and concluded with her brother’s regret
      at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in
      Hertfordshire before he left the country.

      Hope was over, entirely over; and when Jane could attend to the
      rest of the letter, she found little, except the professed
      affection of the writer, that could give her any comfort. Miss
      Darcy’s praise occupied the chief of it. Her many attractions
      were again dwelt on, and Caroline boasted joyfully of their
      increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict the accomplishment
      of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former letter. She
      wrote also with great pleasure of her brother’s being an inmate
      of Mr. Darcy’s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of
      the latter with regard to new furniture.

      Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all
      this, heard it in silent indignation. Her heart was divided
      between concern for her sister, and resentment against all
      others. To Caroline’s assertion of her brother’s being partial to
      Miss Darcy she paid no credit. That he was really fond of Jane,
      she doubted no more than she had ever done; and much as she had
      always been disposed to like him, she could not think without
      anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness of temper, that
      want of proper resolution, which now made him the slave of his
      designing friends, and led him to sacrifice of his own happiness
      to the caprice of their inclination. Had his own happiness,
      however, been the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to
      sport with it in whatever manner he thought best, but her
      sister’s was involved in it, as she thought he must be sensible
      himself. It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be
      long indulged, and must be unavailing. She could think of nothing
      else; and yet whether Bingley’s regard had really died away, or
      were suppressed by his friends’ interference; whether he had been
      aware of Jane’s attachment, or whether it had escaped his
      observation; whatever were the case, though her opinion of him
      must be materially affected by the difference, her sister’s
      situation remained the same, her peace equally wounded.

      A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her
      feelings to Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet’s leaving them
      together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield
      and its master, she could not help saying:

      “Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself! She can
      have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual
      reflections on him. But I will not repine. It cannot last long.
      He will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.”

      Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but
      said nothing.

      “You doubt me,” cried Jane, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have
      no reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my
      acquaintance, but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or
      fear, and nothing to reproach him with. Thank God! I have not
      _that_ pain. A little time, therefore—I shall certainly try to
      get the better.”

      With a stronger voice she soon added, “I have this comfort
      immediately, that it has not been more than an error of fancy on
      my side, and that it has done no harm to anyone but myself.”

      “My dear Jane!” exclaimed Elizabeth, “you are too good. Your
      sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know
      what to say to you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or
      loved you as you deserve.”

      Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw
      back the praise on her sister’s warm affection.

      “Nay,” said Elizabeth, “this is not fair. _You_ wish to think all
      the world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
      _I_ only want to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself
      against it. Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my
      encroaching on your privilege of universal good-will. You need
      not. There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of
      whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I
      dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the
      inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little
      dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or
      sense. I have met with two instances lately, one I will not
      mention; the other is Charlotte’s marriage. It is unaccountable!
      In every view it is unaccountable!”

      “My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. They
      will ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for
      difference of situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins’s
      respectability, and Charlotte’s steady, prudent character.
      Remember that she is one of a large family; that as to fortune,
      it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for
      everybody’s sake, that she may feel something like regard and
      esteem for our cousin.”

      “To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no
      one else could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I
      persuaded that Charlotte had any regard for him, I should only
      think worse of her understanding than I now do of her heart. My
      dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded,
      silly man; you know he is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as
      well as I do, that the woman who married him cannot have a proper
      way of thinking. You shall not defend her, though it is Charlotte
      Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the
      meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade
      yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility
      of danger security for happiness.”

      “I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,”
      replied Jane; “and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing
      them happy together. But enough of this. You alluded to something
      else. You mentioned _two_ instances. I cannot misunderstand you,
      but I entreat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that
      person_ to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must
      not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured. We must
      not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and
      circumspect. It is very often nothing but our own vanity that
      deceives us. Women fancy admiration means more than it does.”

      “And men take care that they should.”

      “If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have
      no idea of there being so much design in the world as some
      persons imagine.”

      “I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley’s conduct to
      design,” said Elizabeth; “but without scheming to do wrong, or to
      make others unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
      Thoughtlessness, want of attention to other people’s feelings,
      and want of resolution, will do the business.”

      “And do you impute it to either of those?”

      “Yes; to the last. But if I go on, I shall displease you by
      saying what I think of persons you esteem. Stop me whilst you
      can.”

      “You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?”

      “Yes, in conjunction with his friend.”

      “I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They
      can only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me, no
      other woman can secure it.”

      “Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides
      his happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and
      consequence; they may wish him to marry a girl who has all the
      importance of money, great connections, and pride.”

      “Beyond a doubt, they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,” replied
      Jane; “but this may be from better feelings than you are
      supposing. They have known her much longer than they have known
      me; no wonder if they love her better. But, whatever may be their
      own wishes, it is very unlikely they should have opposed their
      brother’s. What sister would think herself at liberty to do it,
      unless there were something very objectionable? If they believed
      him attached to me, they would not try to part us; if he were so,
      they could not succeed. By supposing such an affection, you make
      everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy. Do
      not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been
      mistaken—or, at least, it is light, it is nothing in comparison
      of what I should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters. Let
      me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be
      understood.”

      Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr.
      Bingley’s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.

      Mrs. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning
      no more, and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did
      not account for it clearly, there was little chance of her ever
      considering it with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to
      convince her of what she did not believe herself, that his
      attentions to Jane had been merely the effect of a common and
      transient liking, which ceased when he saw her no more; but
      though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time,
      she had the same story to repeat every day. Mrs. Bennet’s best
      comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.

      Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Lizzy,” said he
      one day, “your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate
      her. Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed a little
      in love now and then. It is something to think of, and it gives
      her a sort of distinction among her companions. When is your turn
      to come? You will hardly bear to be long outdone by Jane. Now is
      your time. Here are officers enough in Meryton to disappoint all
      the young ladies in the country. Let Wickham be your man. He is a
      pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”

      “Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We
      must not all expect Jane’s good fortune.”

      “True,” said Mr. Bennet, “but it is a comfort to think that
      whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate
      mother who will make the most of it.”

      Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the
      gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of
      the Longbourn family. They saw him often, and to his other
      recommendations was now added that of general unreserve. The
      whole of what Elizabeth had already heard, his claims on Mr.
      Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him, was now openly
      acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was pleased to
      know how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had
      known anything of the matter.

      Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might
      be any extenuating circumstances in the case, unknown to the
      society of Hertfordshire; her mild and steady candour always
      pleaded for allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes—but
      by everybody else Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.




Chapter 25

      After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of
      felicity, Mr. Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by
      the arrival of Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might
      be alleviated on his side, by preparations for the reception of
      his bride; as he had reason to hope, that shortly after his
      return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to
      make him the happiest of men. He took leave of his relations at
      Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair
      cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father
      another letter of thanks.

      On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of
      receiving her brother and his wife, who came as usual to spend
      the Christmas at Longbourn. Mr. Gardiner was a sensible,
      gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to his sister, as well by
      nature as education. The Netherfield ladies would have had
      difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade, and within
      view of his own warehouses, could have been so well-bred and
      agreeable. Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger than Mrs.
      Bennet and Mrs. Phillips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant
      woman, and a great favourite with all her Longbourn nieces.
      Between the two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a
      particular regard. They had frequently been staying with her in
      town.

      The first part of Mrs. Gardiner’s business on her arrival was to
      distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When
      this was done she had a less active part to play. It became her
      turn to listen. Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and
      much to complain of. They had all been very ill-used since she
      last saw her sister. Two of her girls had been upon the point of
      marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.

      “I do not blame Jane,” she continued, “for Jane would have got
      Mr. Bingley if she could. But Lizzy! Oh, sister! It is very hard
      to think that she might have been Mr. Collins’s wife by this
      time, had it not been for her own perverseness. He made her an
      offer in this very room, and she refused him. The consequence of
      it is, that Lady Lucas will have a daughter married before I
      have, and that the Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as
      ever. The Lucases are very artful people indeed, sister. They are
      all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of them, but so
      it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in
      my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
      before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is
      the greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you
      tell us, of long sleeves.”

      Mrs. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given
      before, in the course of Jane and Elizabeth’s correspondence with
      her, made her sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her
      nieces, turned the conversation.

      When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the
      subject. “It seems likely to have been a desirable match for
      Jane,” said she. “I am sorry it went off. But these things happen
      so often! A young man, such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so
      easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks, and when
      accident separates them, so easily forgets her, that these sort
      of inconsistencies are very frequent.”

      “An excellent consolation in its way,” said Elizabeth, “but it
      will not do for _us_. We do not suffer by accident. It does not
      often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a
      young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom
      he was violently in love with only a few days before.”

      “But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so
      doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is
      as often applied to feelings which arise from a half-hour’s
      acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment. Pray, how _violent
      was_ Mr. Bingley’s love?”

      “I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
      inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every
      time they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own
      ball he offended two or three young ladies, by not asking them to
      dance; and I spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an
      answer. Could there be finer symptoms? Is not general incivility
      the very essence of love?”

      “Oh, yes!—of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.
      Poor Jane! I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she
      may not get over it immediately. It had better have happened to
      _you_, Lizzy; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner.
      But do you think she would be prevailed upon to go back with us?
      Change of scene might be of service—and perhaps a little relief
      from home may be as useful as anything.”

      Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt
      persuaded of her sister’s ready acquiescence.

      “I hope,” added Mrs. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard
      to this young man will influence her. We live in so different a
      part of town, all our connections are so different, and, as you
      well know, we go out so little, that it is very improbable that
      they should meet at all, unless he really comes to see her.”

      “And _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of
      his friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on
      Jane in such a part of London! My dear aunt, how could you think
      of it? Mr. Darcy may perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as
      Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a month’s ablution
      enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter
      it; and depend upon it, Mr. Bingley never stirs without him.”

      “So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does
      not Jane correspond with his sister? _She_ will not be able to
      help calling.”

      “She will drop the acquaintance entirely.”

      But in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to
      place this point, as well as the still more interesting one of
      Bingley’s being withheld from seeing Jane, she felt a solicitude
      on the subject which convinced her, on examination, that she did
      not consider it entirely hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes
      she thought it probable, that his affection might be reanimated,
      and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the
      more natural influence of Jane’s attractions.

      Miss Bennet accepted her aunt’s invitation with pleasure; and the
      Bingleys were no otherwise in her thoughts at the same time, than
      as she hoped by Caroline’s not living in the same house with her
      brother, she might occasionally spend a morning with her, without
      any danger of seeing him.

      The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the
      Phillipses, the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day
      without its engagement. Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for
      the entertainment of her brother and sister, that they did not
      once sit down to a family dinner. When the engagement was for
      home, some of the officers always made part of it—of which
      officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and on these occasions,
      Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth’s warm
      commendation, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing
      them, from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their
      preference of each other was plain enough to make her a little
      uneasy; and she resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject
      before she left Hertfordshire, and represent to her the
      imprudence of encouraging such an attachment.

      To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure,
      unconnected with his general powers. About ten or a dozen years
      ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in
      that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged. They had,
      therefore, many acquaintances in common; and though Wickham had
      been little there since the death of Darcy’s father, it was yet
      in his power to give her fresher intelligence of her former
      friends than she had been in the way of procuring.

      Mrs. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by
      character perfectly well. Here consequently was an inexhaustible
      subject of discourse. In comparing her recollection of Pemberley
      with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in
      bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late
      possessor, she was delighting both him and herself. On being made
      acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy’s treatment of him, she
      tried to remember some of that gentleman’s reputed disposition
      when quite a lad which might agree with it, and was confident at
      last that she recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy
      formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.




Chapter 26

      Mrs. Gardiner’s caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly
      given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her
      alone; after honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went
      on:

      “You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely
      because you are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not
      afraid of speaking openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your
      guard. Do not involve yourself or endeavour to involve him in an
      affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
      I have nothing to say against _him_; he is a most interesting
      young man; and if he had the fortune he ought to have, I should
      think you could not do better. But as it is, you must not let
      your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all expect
      you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
      good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.”

      “My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed.”

      “Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.”

      “Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of
      myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me,
      if I can prevent it.”

      “Elizabeth, you are not serious now.”

      “I beg your pardon, I will try again. At present I am not in love
      with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But he is, beyond all
      comparison, the most agreeable man I ever saw—and if he becomes
      really attached to me—I believe it will be better that he should
      not. I see the imprudence of it. Oh! _that_ abominable Mr. Darcy!
      My father’s opinion of me does me the greatest honour, and I
      should be miserable to forfeit it. My father, however, is partial
      to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear aunt, I should be very sorry to
      be the means of making any of you unhappy; but since we see every
      day that where there is affection, young people are seldom
      withheld by immediate want of fortune from entering into
      engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than
      so many of my fellow-creatures if I am tempted, or how am I even
      to know that it would be wisdom to resist? All that I can promise
      you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry
      to believe myself his first object. When I am in company with
      him, I will not be wishing. In short, I will do my best.”

      “Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so
      very often. At least, you should not _remind_ your mother of
      inviting him.”

      “As I did the other day,” said Elizabeth with a conscious smile:
      “very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_. But do
      not imagine that he is always here so often. It is on your
      account that he has been so frequently invited this week. You
      know my mother’s ideas as to the necessity of constant company
      for her friends. But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do
      what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied.”

      Her aunt assured her that she was, and Elizabeth having thanked
      her for the kindness of her hints, they parted; a wonderful
      instance of advice being given on such a point, without being
      resented.

      Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been
      quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode
      with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs.
      Bennet. His marriage was now fast approaching, and she was at
      length so far resigned as to think it inevitable, and even
      repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured tone, that she “_wished_
      they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the wedding day, and on
      Wednesday Miss Lucas paid her farewell visit; and when she rose
      to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of her mother’s ungracious and
      reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected herself,
      accompanied her out of the room. As they went downstairs
      together, Charlotte said:

      “I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.”

      “_That_ you certainly shall.”

      “And I have another favour to ask you. Will you come and see me?”

      “We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.”

      “I am not likely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me,
      therefore, to come to Hunsford.”

      Elizabeth could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in
      the visit.

      “My father and Maria are coming to me in March,” added Charlotte,
      “and I hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, Eliza,
      you will be as welcome as either of them.”

      The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent
      from the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to
      hear, on the subject as usual. Elizabeth soon heard from her
      friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as
      it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was
      impossible. Elizabeth could never address her without feeling
      that all the comfort of intimacy was over, and though determined
      not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what
      had been, rather than what was. Charlotte’s first letters were
      received with a good deal of eagerness; there could not but be
      curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she
      would like Lady Catherine, and how happy she would dare pronounce
      herself to be; though, when the letters were read, Elizabeth felt
      that Charlotte expressed herself on every point exactly as she
      might have foreseen. She wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with
      comforts, and mentioned nothing which she could not praise. The
      house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her
      taste, and Lady Catherine’s behaviour was most friendly and
      obliging. It was Mr. Collins’s picture of Hunsford and Rosings
      rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait
      for her own visit there to know the rest.

      Jane had already written a few lines to her sister to announce
      their safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth
      hoped it would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.

      Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as
      impatience generally is. Jane had been a week in town without
      either seeing or hearing from Caroline. She accounted for it,
      however, by supposing that her last letter to her friend from
      Longbourn had by some accident been lost.

      “My aunt,” she continued, “is going to-morrow into that part of
      the town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in
      Grosvenor Street.”

      She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen Miss
      Bingley. “I did not think Caroline in spirits,” were her words,
      “but she was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving
      her no notice of my coming to London. I was right, therefore, my
      last letter had never reached her. I enquired after their
      brother, of course. He was well, but so much engaged with Mr.
      Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I found that Miss Darcy
      was expected to dinner. I wish I could see her. My visit was not
      long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out. I dare say I
      shall see them soon here.”

      Elizabeth shook her head over this letter. It convinced her that
      accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister’s being in
      town.

      Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. She
      endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but
      she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley’s inattention. After
      waiting at home every morning for a fortnight, and inventing
      every evening a fresh excuse for her, the visitor did at last
      appear; but the shortness of her stay, and yet more, the
      alteration of her manner would allow Jane to deceive herself no
      longer. The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister
      will prove what she felt.

      “My dearest Lizzy will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in
      her better judgement, at my expense, when I confess myself to
      have been entirely deceived in Miss Bingley’s regard for me. But,
      my dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not
      think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her
      behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I
      do not at all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate
      with me; but if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am
      sure I should be deceived again. Caroline did not return my visit
      till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the
      meantime. When she did come, it was very evident that she had no
      pleasure in it; she made a slight, formal apology, for not
      calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and
      was in every respect so altered a creature, that when she went
      away I was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no
      longer. I pity, though I cannot help blaming her. She was very
      wrong in singling me out as she did; I can safely say that every
      advance to intimacy began on her side. But I pity her, because
      she must feel that she has been acting wrong, and because I am
      very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it. I need
      not explain myself farther; and though _we_ know this anxiety to
      be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily account
      for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his
      sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural
      and amiable. I cannot but wonder, however, at her having any such
      fears now, because, if he had at all cared about me, we must have
      met, long ago. He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from
      something she said herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner
      of talking, as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is
      really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot understand it. If I were
      not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to say
      that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this. But I
      will endeavour to banish every painful thought, and think only of
      what will make me happy—your affection, and the invariable
      kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear from you very
      soon. Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to
      Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any
      certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely glad that
      you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford.
      Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am sure you
      will be very comfortable there.—Yours, etc.”

      This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned as
      she considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister
      at least. All expectation from the brother was now absolutely
      over. She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
      His character sunk on every review of it; and as a punishment for
      him, as well as a possible advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped
      he might really soon marry Mr. Darcy’s sister, as by Wickham’s
      account, she would make him abundantly regret what he had thrown
      away.

      Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise
      concerning that gentleman, and required information; and
      Elizabeth had such to send as might rather give contentment to
      her aunt than to herself. His apparent partiality had subsided,
      his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else.
      Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but she could see it
      and write of it without material pain. Her heart had been but
      slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied with believing
      that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted
      it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most
      remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering
      himself agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in
      this case than in Charlotte’s, did not quarrel with him for his
      wish of independence. Nothing, on the contrary, could be more
      natural; and while able to suppose that it cost him a few
      struggles to relinquish her, she was ready to allow it a wise and
      desirable measure for both, and could very sincerely wish him
      happy.

      All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and after relating
      the circumstances, she thus went on: “I am now convinced, my dear
      aunt, that I have never been much in love; for had I really
      experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present
      detest his very name, and wish him all manner of evil. But my
      feelings are not only cordial towards _him_; they are even
      impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find out that I hate her at
      all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think her a very good
      sort of girl. There can be no love in all this. My watchfulness
      has been effectual; and though I certainly should be a more
      interesting object to all my acquaintances were I distractedly in
      love with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative
      insignificance. Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly.
      Kitty and Lydia take his defection much more to heart than I do.
      They are young in the ways of the world, and not yet open to the
      mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something
      to live on as well as the plain.”




Chapter 27

      With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and
      otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton,
      sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass
      away. March was to take Elizabeth to Hunsford. She had not at
      first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, she
      soon found, was depending on the plan and she gradually learned
      to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater
      certainty. Absence had increased her desire of seeing Charlotte
      again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins. There was novelty
      in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such
      uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little
      change was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would
      moreover give her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew
      near, she would have been very sorry for any delay. Everything,
      however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to
      Charlotte’s first sketch. She was to accompany Sir William and
      his second daughter. The improvement of spending a night in
      London was added in time, and the plan became perfect as plan
      could be.

      The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss
      her, and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her
      going, that he told her to write to him, and almost promised to
      answer her letter.

      The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly
      friendly; on his side even more. His present pursuit could not
      make him forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and
      to deserve his attention, the first to listen and to pity, the
      first to be admired; and in his manner of bidding her adieu,
      wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what she was to
      expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of
      her—their opinion of everybody—would always coincide, there was a
      solicitude, an interest which she felt must ever attach her to
      him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced
      that, whether married or single, he must always be her model of
      the amiable and pleasing.

      Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her
      think him less agreeable. Sir William Lucas, and his daughter
      Maria, a good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had
      nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to
      with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth
      loved absurdities, but she had known Sir William’s too long. He
      could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and
      knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his
      information.

      It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so
      early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to
      Mr. Gardiner’s door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching
      their arrival; when they entered the passage she was there to
      welcome them, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in her face, was
      pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever. On the stairs
      were a troop of little boys and girls, whose eagerness for their
      cousin’s appearance would not allow them to wait in the
      drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her for a
      twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and
      kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in
      bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.

      Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. Their first object
      was her sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear,
      in reply to her minute enquiries, that though Jane always
      struggled to support her spirits, there were periods of
      dejection. It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would
      not continue long. Mrs. Gardiner gave her the particulars also of
      Miss Bingley’s visit in Gracechurch Street, and repeated
      conversations occurring at different times between Jane and
      herself, which proved that the former had, from her heart, given
      up the acquaintance.

      Mrs. Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham’s desertion, and
      complimented her on bearing it so well.

      “But my dear Elizabeth,” she added, “what sort of girl is Miss
      King? I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.”

      “Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial
      affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does
      discretion end, and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid
      of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now,
      because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds,
      you want to find out that he is mercenary.”

      “If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall
      know what to think.”

      “She is a very good kind of girl, I believe. I know no harm of
      her.”

      “But he paid her not the smallest attention till her
      grandfather’s death made her mistress of this fortune.”

      “No—why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
      affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be
      for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was
      equally poor?”

      “But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions
      towards her so soon after this event.”

      “A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those
      elegant decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does
      not object to it, why should _we_?”

      “_Her_ not objecting does not justify _him_. It only shows her
      being deficient in something herself—sense or feeling.”

      “Well,” cried Elizabeth, “have it as you choose. _He_ shall be
      mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish.”

      “No, Lizzy, that is what I do _not_ choose. I should be sorry,
      you know, to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in
      Derbyshire.”

      “Oh! if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who
      live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in
      Hertfordshire are not much better. I am sick of them all. Thank
      Heaven! I am going to-morrow where I shall find a man who has not
      one agreeable quality, who has neither manner nor sense to
      recommend him. Stupid men are the only ones worth knowing, after
      all.”

      “Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of
      disappointment.”

      Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had
      the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle
      and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the
      summer.

      “We have not determined how far it shall carry us,” said Mrs.
      Gardiner, “but, perhaps, to the Lakes.”

      No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her
      acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “Oh, my
      dear, dear aunt,” she rapturously cried, “what delight! what
      felicity! You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to
      disappointment and spleen. What are young men to rocks and
      mountains? Oh! what hours of transport we shall spend! And when
      we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without
      being able to give one accurate idea of anything. We _will_ know
      where we have gone—we _will_ recollect what we have seen. Lakes,
      mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our
      imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any particular
      scene, will we begin quarreling about its relative situation. Let
      _our_ first effusions be less insupportable than those of the
      generality of travellers.”




Chapter 28

      Every object in the next day’s journey was new and interesting to
      Elizabeth; and her spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for she
      had seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her
      health, and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant
      source of delight.

      When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye
      was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to
      bring it in view. The palings of Rosings Park was their boundary
      on one side. Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she
      had heard of its inhabitants.

      At length the Parsonage was discernible. The garden sloping to
      the road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the
      laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving. Mr. Collins
      and Charlotte appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at
      the small gate which led by a short gravel walk to the house,
      amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party. In a moment they
      were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other.
      Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and
      Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when she found
      herself so affectionately received. She saw instantly that her
      cousin’s manners were not altered by his marriage; his formal
      civility was just what it had been, and he detained her some
      minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his enquiries after all
      her family. They were then, with no other delay than his pointing
      out the neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as
      soon as they were in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time,
      with ostentatious formality to his humble abode, and punctually
      repeated all his wife’s offers of refreshment.

      Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory; and she could not
      help in fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the
      room, its aspect and its furniture, he addressed himself
      particularly to her, as if wishing to make her feel what she had
      lost in refusing him. But though everything seemed neat and
      comfortable, she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of
      repentance, and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she
      could have so cheerful an air with such a companion. When Mr.
      Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be
      ashamed, which certainly was not unseldom, she involuntarily
      turned her eye on Charlotte. Once or twice she could discern a
      faint blush; but in general Charlotte wisely did not hear. After
      sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the
      room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of
      their journey, and of all that had happened in London, Mr.
      Collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was
      large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he
      attended himself. To work in this garden was one of his most
      respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of
      countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of
      the exercise, and owned she encouraged it as much as possible.
      Here, leading the way through every walk and cross walk, and
      scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises he asked
      for, every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left
      beauty entirely behind. He could number the fields in every
      direction, and could tell how many trees there were in the most
      distant clump. But of all the views which his garden, or which
      the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with
      the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that
      bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. It was
      a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.

      From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two
      meadows; but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the
      remains of a white frost, turned back; and while Sir William
      accompanied him, Charlotte took her sister and friend over the
      house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity
      of showing it without her husband’s help. It was rather small,
      but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and
      arranged with a neatness and consistency of which Elizabeth gave
      Charlotte all the credit. When Mr. Collins could be forgotten,
      there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by
      Charlotte’s evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must
      be often forgotten.

      She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the
      country. It was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when
      Mr. Collins joining in, observed:

      “Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady
      Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need
      not say you will be delighted with her. She is all affability and
      condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some
      portion of her notice when service is over. I have scarcely any
      hesitation in saying she will include you and my sister Maria in
      every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here.
      Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is charming. We dine at
      Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home. Her
      ladyship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us. I _should_ say,
      one of her ladyship’s carriages, for she has several.”

      “Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed,”
      added Charlotte, “and a most attentive neighbour.”

      “Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. She is the sort
      of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference.”

      The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news,
      and telling again what had already been written; and when it
      closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to
      meditate upon Charlotte’s degree of contentment, to understand
      her address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, her
      husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well. She
      had also to anticipate how her visit would pass, the quiet tenor
      of their usual employments, the vexatious interruptions of Mr.
      Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse with Rosings. A
      lively imagination soon settled it all.

      About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting
      ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole
      house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard
      somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly
      after her. She opened the door and met Maria in the landing
      place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out—

      “Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the
      dining-room, for there is such a sight to be seen! I will not
      tell you what it is. Make haste, and come down this moment.”

      Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell her nothing
      more, and down they ran into the dining-room, which fronted the
      lane, in quest of this wonder; It was two ladies stopping in a
      low phaeton at the garden gate.

      “And is this all?” cried Elizabeth. “I expected at least that the
      pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady
      Catherine and her daughter.”

      “La! my dear,” said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, “it is
      not Lady Catherine. The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives
      with them; the other is Miss de Bourgh. Only look at her. She is
      quite a little creature. Who would have thought that she could be
      so thin and small?”

      “She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all
      this wind. Why does she not come in?”

      “Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of
      favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in.”

      “I like her appearance,” said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
      “She looks sickly and cross. Yes, she will do for him very well.
      She will make him a very proper wife.”

      Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in
      conversation with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeth’s
      high diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest
      contemplation of the greatness before him, and constantly bowing
      whenever Miss de Bourgh looked that way.

      At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on,
      and the others returned into the house. Mr. Collins no sooner saw
      the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good
      fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting them know that the
      whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.




Chapter 29

      Mr. Collins’s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was
      complete. The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness
      to his wondering visitors, and of letting them see her civility
      towards himself and his wife, was exactly what he had wished for;
      and that an opportunity of doing it should be given so soon, was
      such an instance of Lady Catherine’s condescension, as he knew
      not how to admire enough.

      “I confess,” said he, “that I should not have been at all
      surprised by her ladyship’s asking us on Sunday to drink tea and
      spend the evening at Rosings. I rather expected, from my
      knowledge of her affability, that it would happen. But who could
      have foreseen such an attention as this? Who could have imagined
      that we should receive an invitation to dine there (an
      invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately
      after your arrival!”

      “I am the less surprised at what has happened,” replied Sir
      William, “from that knowledge of what the manners of the great
      really are, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire.
      About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not
      uncommon.”

      Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but
      their visit to Rosings. Mr. Collins was carefully instructing
      them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms,
      so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly
      overpower them.

      When the ladies were separating for the toilette, he said to
      Elizabeth—

      “Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel.
      Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us
      which becomes herself and her daughter. I would advise you merely
      to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest—there
      is no occasion for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think
      the worse of you for being simply dressed. She likes to have the
      distinction of rank preserved.”

      While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their
      different doors, to recommend their being quick, as Lady
      Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner.
      Such formidable accounts of her ladyship, and her manner of
      living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to
      company, and she looked forward to her introduction at Rosings
      with as much apprehension as her father had done to his
      presentation at St. James’s.

      As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a
      mile across the park. Every park has its beauty and its
      prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she
      could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene
      to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of
      the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the
      glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.

      When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria’s alarm was every
      moment increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly
      calm. Elizabeth’s courage did not fail her. She had heard nothing
      of Lady Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary
      talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money
      or rank she thought she could witness without trepidation.

      From the entrance-hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
      rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments,
      they followed the servants through an ante-chamber, to the room
      where Lady Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were
      sitting. Her ladyship, with great condescension, arose to receive
      them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it with her husband that
      the office of introduction should be hers, it was performed in a
      proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which he
      would have thought necessary.

      In spite of having been at St. James’s, Sir William was so
      completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but
      just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat
      without saying a word; and his daughter, frightened almost out of
      her senses, sat on the edge of her chair, not knowing which way
      to look. Elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene, and
      could observe the three ladies before her composedly. Lady
      Catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked features,
      which might once have been handsome. Her air was not
      conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to
      make her visitors forget their inferior rank. She was not
      rendered formidable by silence; but whatever she said was spoken
      in so authoritative a tone, as marked her self-importance, and
      brought Mr. Wickham immediately to Elizabeth’s mind; and from the
      observation of the day altogether, she believed Lady Catherine to
      be exactly what he represented.

      When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and
      deportment she soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, she
      turned her eyes on the daughter, she could almost have joined in
      Maria’s astonishment at her being so thin and so small. There was
      neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies. Miss
      de Bourgh was pale and sickly; her features, though not plain,
      were insignificant; and she spoke very little, except in a low
      voice, to Mrs. Jenkinson, in whose appearance there was nothing
      remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening to what she
      said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before her
      eyes.

      After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the
      windows to admire the view, Mr. Collins attending them to point
      out its beauties, and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that
      it was much better worth looking at in the summer.

      The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the
      servants and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had
      promised; and, as he had likewise foretold, he took his seat at
      the bottom of the table, by her ladyship’s desire, and looked as
      if he felt that life could furnish nothing greater. He carved,
      and ate, and praised with delighted alacrity; and every dish was
      commended, first by him and then by Sir William, who was now
      enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said, in a
      manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear. But
      Lady Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration,
      and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the
      table proved a novelty to them. The party did not supply much
      conversation. Elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an
      opening, but she was seated between Charlotte and Miss de
      Bourgh—the former of whom was engaged in listening to Lady
      Catherine, and the latter said not a word to her all dinner-time.
      Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little Miss
      de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish, and fearing
      she was indisposed. Maria thought speaking out of the question,
      and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.

      When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to
      be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without
      any intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on
      every subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not
      used to have her judgement controverted. She enquired into
      Charlotte’s domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a
      great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told her
      how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as
      hers, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her
      poultry. Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great
      lady’s attention, which could furnish her with an occasion of
      dictating to others. In the intervals of her discourse with Mrs.
      Collins, she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and
      Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she
      knew the least, and who she observed to Mrs. Collins was a very
      genteel, pretty kind of girl. She asked her, at different times,
      how many sisters she had, whether they were older or younger than
      herself, whether any of them were likely to be married, whether
      they were handsome, where they had been educated, what carriage
      her father kept, and what had been her mother’s maiden name?
      Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions but answered
      them very composedly. Lady Catherine then observed,

      “Your father’s estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think. For
      your sake,” turning to Charlotte, “I am glad of it; but otherwise
      I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line. It
      was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you
      play and sing, Miss Bennet?”

      “A little.”

      “Oh! then—some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our
      instrument is a capital one, probably superior to——You shall try
      it some day. Do your sisters play and sing?”

      “One of them does.”

      “Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The
      Miss Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income
      as yours. Do you draw?”

      “No, not at all.”

      “What, none of you?”

      “Not one.”

      “That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your
      mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit
      of masters.”

      “My mother would have had no objection, but my father hates
      London.”

      “Has your governess left you?”

      “We never had any governess.”

      “No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up
      at home without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your
      mother must have been quite a slave to your education.”

      Elizabeth could hardly help smiling as she assured her that had
      not been the case.

      “Then, who taught you? who attended to you? Without a governess,
      you must have been neglected.”

      “Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us
      as wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always
      encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary.
      Those who chose to be idle, certainly might.”

      “Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if
      I had known your mother, I should have advised her most
      strenuously to engage one. I always say that nothing is to be
      done in education without steady and regular instruction, and
      nobody but a governess can give it. It is wonderful how many
      families I have been the means of supplying in that way. I am
      always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nieces of
      Mrs. Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means;
      and it was but the other day that I recommended another young
      person, who was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the
      family are quite delighted with her. Mrs. Collins, did I tell you
      of Lady Metcalf’s calling yesterday to thank me? She finds Miss
      Pope a treasure. ‘Lady Catherine,’ said she, ‘you have given me a
      treasure.’ Are any of your younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?”

      “Yes, ma’am, all.”

      “All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the
      second. The younger ones out before the elder ones are married!
      Your younger sisters must be very young?”

      “Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _she_ is full young to
      be much in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very
      hard upon younger sisters, that they should not have their share
      of society and amusement, because the elder may not have the
      means or inclination to marry early. The last-born has as good a
      right to the pleasures of youth as the first. And to be kept back
      on _such_ a motive! I think it would not be very likely to
      promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.”

      “Upon my word,” said her ladyship, “you give your opinion very
      decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”

      “With three younger sisters grown up,” replied Elizabeth,
      smiling, “your ladyship can hardly expect me to own it.”

      Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct
      answer; and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature
      who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.

      “You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure, therefore you need
      not conceal your age.”

      “I am not one-and-twenty.”

      When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the
      card-tables were placed. Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and
      Mrs. Collins sat down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose
      to play at cassino, the two girls had the honour of assisting
      Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her party. Their table was
      superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was uttered that did
      not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson expressed her
      fears of Miss de Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or having
      too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the
      other table. Lady Catherine was generally speaking—stating the
      mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of
      herself. Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her
      ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and
      apologising if he thought he won too many. Sir William did not
      say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble
      names.

      When Lady Catherine and her daughter had played as long as they
      chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to
      Mrs. Collins, gratefully accepted and immediately ordered. The
      party then gathered round the fire to hear Lady Catherine
      determine what weather they were to have on the morrow. From
      these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the
      coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr. Collins’s
      side and as many bows on Sir William’s they departed. As soon as
      they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her
      cousin to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings,
      which, for Charlotte’s sake, she made more favourable than it
      really was. But her commendation, though costing her some
      trouble, could by no means satisfy Mr. Collins, and he was very
      soon obliged to take her ladyship’s praise into his own hands.




Chapter 30

      Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford, but his visit was
      long enough to convince him of his daughter’s being most
      comfortably settled, and of her possessing such a husband and
      such a neighbour as were not often met with. While Sir William
      was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his morning to driving him out
      in his gig, and showing him the country; but when he went away,
      the whole family returned to their usual employments, and
      Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her
      cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between
      breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the
      garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window
      in his own book-room, which fronted the road. The room in which
      the ladies sat was backwards. Elizabeth had at first rather
      wondered that Charlotte should not prefer the dining-parlour for
      common use; it was a better sized room, and had a more pleasant
      aspect; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent reason
      for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been
      much less in his own apartment, had they sat in one equally
      lively; and she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.

      From the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane,
      and were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what
      carriages went along, and how often especially Miss de Bourgh
      drove by in her phaeton, which he never failed coming to inform
      them of, though it happened almost every day. She not
      unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes’
      conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed upon
      to get out.

      Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to
      Rosings, and not many in which his wife did not think it
      necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected that
      there might be other family livings to be disposed of, she could
      not understand the sacrifice of so many hours. Now and then they
      were honoured with a call from her ladyship, and nothing escaped
      her observation that was passing in the room during these visits.
      She examined into their employments, looked at their work, and
      advised them to do it differently; found fault with the
      arrangement of the furniture; or detected the housemaid in
      negligence; and if she accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it
      only for the sake of finding out that Mrs. Collins’s joints of
      meat were too large for her family.

      Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in
      the commission of the peace of the county, she was a most active
      magistrate in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were
      carried to her by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers
      were disposed to be quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, she
      sallied forth into the village to settle their differences,
      silence their complaints, and scold them into harmony and plenty.

      The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a
      week; and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being
      only one card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was
      the counterpart of the first. Their other engagements were few,
      as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond
      Mr. Collins’s reach. This, however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and
      upon the whole she spent her time comfortably enough; there were
      half-hours of pleasant conversation with Charlotte, and the
      weather was so fine for the time of year that she had often great
      enjoyment out of doors. Her favourite walk, and where she
      frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine,
      was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where
      there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but
      herself, and where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine’s
      curiosity.

      In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed
      away. Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to
      bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a
      circle must be important. Elizabeth had heard soon after her
      arrival that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few
      weeks, and though there were not many of her acquaintances whom
      she did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively
      new to look at in their Rosings parties, and she might be amused
      in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley’s designs on him were, by his
      behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined by
      Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest
      satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration,
      and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been
      frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself.

      His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was
      walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into
      Hunsford Lane, in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and
      after making his bow as the carriage turned into the Park,
      hurried home with the great intelligence. On the following
      morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects. There were
      two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had
      brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his
      uncle Lord ——, and, to the great surprise of all the party, when
      Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him. Charlotte
      had seen them from her husband’s room, crossing the road, and
      immediately running into the other, told the girls what an honour
      they might expect, adding:

      “I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy
      would never have come so soon to wait upon me.”

      Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the
      compliment, before their approach was announced by the door-bell,
      and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room.
      Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not
      handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman. Mr.
      Darcy looked just as he had been used to look in
      Hertfordshire—paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to
      Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be his feelings toward her
      friend, met her with every appearance of composure. Elizabeth
      merely curtseyed to him without saying a word.

      Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the
      readiness and ease of a well-bred man, and talked very
      pleasantly; but his cousin, after having addressed a slight
      observation on the house and garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some
      time without speaking to anybody. At length, however, his
      civility was so far awakened as to enquire of Elizabeth after the
      health of her family. She answered him in the usual way, and
      after a moment’s pause, added:

      “My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you
      never happened to see her there?”

      She was perfectly sensible that he never had; but she wished to
      see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed
      between the Bingleys and Jane, and she thought he looked a little
      confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to
      meet Miss Bennet. The subject was pursued no farther, and the
      gentlemen soon afterwards went away.




Chapter 31

      Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the
      Parsonage, and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably
      to the pleasures of their engagements at Rosings. It was some
      days, however, before they received any invitation thither—for
      while there were visitors in the house, they could not be
      necessary; and it was not till Easter-day, almost a week after
      the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by such an
      attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
      come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very
      little of Lady Catherine or her daughter. Colonel Fitzwilliam had
      called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr.
      Darcy they had seen only at church.

      The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they
      joined the party in Lady Catherine’s drawing-room. Her ladyship
      received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by
      no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she
      was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them,
      especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the
      room.

      Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them; anything was
      a welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins’s pretty
      friend had moreover caught his fancy very much. He now seated
      himself by her, and talked so agreeably of Kent and
      Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books
      and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so well entertained
      in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and
      flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself, as well
      as of Mr. Darcy. _His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned
      towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship,
      after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged,
      for she did not scruple to call out:

      “What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam? What is it you are
      talking of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it
      is.”

      “We are speaking of music, madam,” said he, when no longer able
      to avoid a reply.

      “Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my
      delight. I must have my share in the conversation if you are
      speaking of music. There are few people in England, I suppose,
      who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better
      natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great
      proficient. And so would Anne, if her health had allowed her to
      apply. I am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
      How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?”

      Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister’s
      proficiency.

      “I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,” said Lady
      Catherine; “and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to
      excel if she does not practice a good deal.”

      “I assure you, madam,” he replied, “that she does not need such
      advice. She practises very constantly.”

      “So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next
      write to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any
      account. I often tell young ladies that no excellence in music is
      to be acquired without constant practice. I have told Miss Bennet
      several times, that she will never play really well unless she
      practises more; and though Mrs. Collins has no instrument, she is
      very welcome, as I have often told her, to come to Rosings every
      day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs. Jenkinson’s room. She
      would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part of the house.”

      Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding, and
      made no answer.

      When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of
      having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the
      instrument. He drew a chair near her. Lady Catherine listened to
      half a song, and then talked, as before, to her other nephew;
      till the latter walked away from her, and making with his usual
      deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed himself so as to
      command a full view of the fair performer’s countenance.
      Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first convenient
      pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said:

      “You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state
      to hear me? I will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play
      so well. There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to
      be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises at
      every attempt to intimidate me.”

      “I shall not say you are mistaken,” he replied, “because you
      could not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming
      you; and I have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough
      to know that you find great enjoyment in occasionally professing
      opinions which in fact are not your own.”

      Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said
      to Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty
      notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am
      particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose
      my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to
      pass myself off with some degree of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it
      is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my
      disadvantage in Hertfordshire—and, give me leave to say, very
      impolitic too—for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such
      things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.”

      “I am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.

      “Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried Colonel
      Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among
      strangers.”

      “You shall hear then—but prepare yourself for something very
      dreadful. The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire,
      you must know, was at a ball—and at this ball, what do you think
      he did? He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce;
      and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was
      sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the
      fact.”

      “I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the
      assembly beyond my own party.”

      “True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well,
      Colonel Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your
      orders.”

      “Perhaps,” said Darcy, “I should have judged better, had I sought
      an introduction; but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to
      strangers.”

      “Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth,
      still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man
      of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill
      qualified to recommend himself to strangers?”

      “I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying
      to him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.”

      “I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said
      Darcy, “of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
      I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested
      in their concerns, as I often see done.”

      “My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument
      in the masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have
      not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same
      expression. But then I have always supposed it to be my own
      fault—because I will not take the trouble of practising. It is
      not that I do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other
      woman’s of superior execution.”

      Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have
      employed your time much better. No one admitted to the privilege
      of hearing you can think anything wanting. We neither of us
      perform to strangers.”

      Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to
      know what they were talking of. Elizabeth immediately began
      playing again. Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening
      for a few minutes, said to Darcy:

      “Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more,
      and could have the advantage of a London master. She has a very
      good notion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to
      Anne’s. Anne would have been a delightful performer, had her
      health allowed her to learn.”

      Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
      cousin’s praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other
      could she discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his
      behaviour to Miss de Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss
      Bingley, that he might have been just as likely to marry _her_,
      had she been his relation.

      Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth’s performance,
      mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste.
      Elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility,
      and, at the request of the gentlemen, remained at the instrument
      till her ladyship’s carriage was ready to take them all home.




Chapter 32

      Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to
      Jane while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the
      village, when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain
      signal of a visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it
      not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension
      was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape
      all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very
      great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.

      He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologised for
      his intrusion by letting her know that he had understood all the
      ladies were to be within.

      They then sat down, and when her enquiries after Rosings were
      made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was
      absolutely necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in
      this emergence recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in
      Hertfordshire, and feeling curious to know what he would say on
      the subject of their hasty departure, she observed:

      “How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr.
      Darcy! It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley
      to see you all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he
      went but the day before. He and his sisters were well, I hope,
      when you left London?”

      “Perfectly so, I thank you.”

      She found that she was to receive no other answer, and, after a
      short pause added:

      “I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of
      ever returning to Netherfield again?”

      “I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may
      spend very little of his time there in the future. He has many
      friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements
      are continually increasing.”

      “If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better
      for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely,
      for then we might possibly get a settled family there. But,
      perhaps, Mr. Bingley did not take the house so much for the
      convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must
      expect him to keep it or quit it on the same principle.”

      “I should not be surprised,” said Darcy, “if he were to give it
      up as soon as any eligible purchase offers.”

      Elizabeth made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his
      friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to
      leave the trouble of finding a subject to him.

      He took the hint, and soon began with, “This seems a very
      comfortable house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to
      it when Mr. Collins first came to Hunsford.”

      “I believe she did—and I am sure she could not have bestowed her
      kindness on a more grateful object.”

      “Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a
      wife.”

      “Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with
      one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him,
      or have made him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent
      understanding—though I am not certain that I consider her
      marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing she ever did. She seems
      perfectly happy, however, and in a prudential light it is
      certainly a very good match for her.”

      “It must be very agreeable for her to be settled within so easy a
      distance of her own family and friends.”

      “An easy distance, do you call it? It is nearly fifty miles.”

      “And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a
      day’s journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.”

      “I should never have considered the distance as one of the
      _advantages_ of the match,” cried Elizabeth. “I should never have
      said Mrs. Collins was settled _near_ her family.”

      “It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything
      beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would
      appear far.”

      As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she
      understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
      Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:

      “I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near
      her family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on
      many varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the
      expenses of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But
      that is not the case _here_. Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a
      comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent
      journeys—and I am persuaded my friend would not call herself
      _near_ her family under less than _half_ the present distance.”

      Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, “_You_
      cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment. _You_
      cannot have been always at Longbourn.”

      Elizabeth looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change
      of feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the
      table, and glancing over it, said, in a colder voice:

      “Are you pleased with Kent?”

      A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either
      side calm and concise—and soon put an end to by the entrance of
      Charlotte and her sister, just returned from her walk. The
      _tête-à-tête_ surprised them. Mr. Darcy related the mistake which
      had occasioned his intruding on Miss Bennet, and after sitting a
      few minutes longer without saying much to anybody, went away.

      “What can be the meaning of this?” said Charlotte, as soon as he
      was gone. “My dear, Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he
      would never have called on us in this familiar way.”

      But when Elizabeth told of his silence, it did not seem very
      likely, even to Charlotte’s wishes, to be the case; and after
      various conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to
      proceed from the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was
      the more probable from the time of year. All field sports were
      over. Within doors there was Lady Catherine, books, and a
      billiard-table, but gentlemen cannot always be within doors; and
      in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the pleasantness of the walk
      to it, or of the people who lived in it, the two cousins found a
      temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day.
      They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
      separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by
      their aunt. It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam
      came because he had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which
      of course recommended him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded
      by her own satisfaction in being with him, as well as by his
      evident admiration of her, of her former favourite George
      Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw there was less
      captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners, she
      believed he might have the best informed mind.

      But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more
      difficult to understand. It could not be for society, as he
      frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his
      lips; and when he did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity
      rather than of choice—a sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to
      himself. He seldom appeared really animated. Mrs. Collins knew
      not what to make of him. Colonel Fitzwilliam’s occasionally
      laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was generally
      different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
      her; and as she would liked to have believed this change the
      effect of love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she
      set herself seriously to work to find it out. She watched him
      whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford;
      but without much success. He certainly looked at her friend a
      great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable. It
      was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often doubted whether
      there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it seemed nothing
      but absence of mind.

      She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of
      his being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the
      idea; and Mrs. Collins did not think it right to press the
      subject, from the danger of raising expectations which might only
      end in disappointment; for in her opinion it admitted not of a
      doubt, that all her friend’s dislike would vanish, if she could
      suppose him to be in her power.

      In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her
      marrying Colonel Fitzwilliam. He was beyond comparison the most
      pleasant man; he certainly admired her, and his situation in life
      was most eligible; but, to counterbalance these advantages, Mr.
      Darcy had considerable patronage in the church, and his cousin
      could have none at all.




Chapter 33

      More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park,
      unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. She felt all the perverseness of the
      mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought,
      and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him
      at first that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it could
      occur a second time, therefore, was very odd! Yet it did, and
      even a third. It seemed like wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary
      penance, for on these occasions it was not merely a few formal
      enquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but he actually
      thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He never
      said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of
      talking or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of
      their third rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected
      questions—about her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of
      solitary walks, and her opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins’s
      happiness; and that in speaking of Rosings and her not perfectly
      understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever she
      came into Kent again she would be staying _there_ too. His words
      seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his
      thoughts? She supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an
      allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed her a
      little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the
      pales opposite the Parsonage.

      She was engaged one day as she walked, in perusing Jane’s last
      letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had
      not written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by
      Mr. Darcy, she saw on looking up that Colonel Fitzwilliam was
      meeting her. Putting away the letter immediately and forcing a
      smile, she said:

      “I did not know before that you ever walked this way.”

      “I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I
      generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at
      the Parsonage. Are you going much farther?”

      “No, I should have turned in a moment.”

      And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the
      Parsonage together.

      “Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?” said she.

      “Yes—if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his
      disposal. He arranges the business just as he pleases.”

      “And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at
      least pleasure in the great power of choice. I do not know
      anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes
      than Mr. Darcy.”

      “He likes to have his own way very well,” replied Colonel
      Fitzwilliam. “But so we all do. It is only that he has better
      means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many
      others are poor. I speak feelingly. A younger son, you know, must
      be inured to self-denial and dependence.”

      “In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little
      of either. Now seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial
      and dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money
      from going wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a
      fancy for?”

      “These are home questions—and perhaps I cannot say that I have
      experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of
      greater weight, I may suffer from want of money. Younger sons
      cannot marry where they like.”

      “Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very
      often do.”

      “Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not
      many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some
      attention to money.”

      “Is this,” thought Elizabeth, “meant for me?” and she coloured at
      the idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, “And
      pray, what is the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless
      the elder brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask
      above fifty thousand pounds.”

      He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped. To
      interrupt a silence which might make him fancy her affected with
      what had passed, she soon afterwards said:

      “I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the
      sake of having someone at his disposal. I wonder he does not
      marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind. But,
      perhaps, his sister does as well for the present, and, as she is
      under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her.”

      “No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which he
      must divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of
      Miss Darcy.”

      “Are you indeed? And pray what sort of guardians do you make?
      Does your charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of her age
      are sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if she has the
      true Darcy spirit, she may like to have her own way.”

      As she spoke she observed him looking at her earnestly; and the
      manner in which he immediately asked her why she supposed Miss
      Darcy likely to give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she
      had somehow or other got pretty near the truth. She directly
      replied:

      “You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of her; and I
      dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
      She is a very great favourite with some ladies of my
      acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley. I think I have heard
      you say that you know them.”

      “I know them a little. Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike
      man—he is a great friend of Darcy’s.”

      “Oh! yes,” said Elizabeth drily; “Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to
      Mr. Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.”

      “Care of him! Yes, I really believe Darcy _does_ take care of him
      in those points where he most wants care. From something that he
      told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley
      very much indebted to him. But I ought to beg his pardon, for I
      have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant. It
      was all conjecture.”

      “What is it you mean?”

      “It is a circumstance which Darcy could not wish to be generally
      known, because if it were to get round to the lady’s family, it
      would be an unpleasant thing.”

      “You may depend upon my not mentioning it.”

      “And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
      Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated
      himself on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences
      of a most imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any
      other particulars, and I only suspected it to be Bingley from
      believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that
      sort, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of
      last summer.”

      “Did Mr. Darcy give you reasons for this interference?”

      “I understood that there were some very strong objections against
      the lady.”

      “And what arts did he use to separate them?”

      “He did not talk to me of his own arts,” said Fitzwilliam,
      smiling. “He only told me what I have now told you.”

      Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
      indignation. After watching her a little, Fitzwilliam asked her
      why she was so thoughtful.

      “I am thinking of what you have been telling me,” said she. “Your
      cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the
      judge?”

      “You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?”

      “I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety
      of his friend’s inclination, or why, upon his own judgement
      alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend
      was to be happy. But,” she continued, recollecting herself, “as
      we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him.
      It is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the
      case.”

      “That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam, “but it is
      a lessening of the honour of my cousin’s triumph very sadly.”

      This was spoken jestingly; but it appeared to her so just a
      picture of Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an
      answer, and therefore, abruptly changing the conversation talked
      on indifferent matters until they reached the Parsonage. There,
      shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she
      could think without interruption of all that she had heard. It
      was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than
      those with whom she was connected. There could not exist in the
      world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have such boundless
      influence. That he had been concerned in the measures taken to
      separate Bingley and Jane she had never doubted; but she had
      always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and
      arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead
      him, _he_ was the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of
      all that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He had
      ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most
      affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say
      how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.

      “There were some very strong objections against the lady,” were
      Colonel Fitzwilliam’s words; and those strong objections probably
      were, her having one uncle who was a country attorney, and
      another who was in business in London.

      “To Jane herself,” she exclaimed, “there could be no possibility
      of objection; all loveliness and goodness as she is!—her
      understanding excellent, her mind improved, and her manners
      captivating. Neither could anything be urged against my father,
      who, though with some peculiarities, has abilities Mr. Darcy
      himself need not disdain, and respectability which he will
      probably never reach.” When she thought of her mother, her
      confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow that any
      objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose
      pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the
      want of importance in his friend’s connections, than from their
      want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had
      been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by
      the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.

      The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on
      a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening, that,
      added to her unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined her
      not to attend her cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to
      drink tea. Mrs. Collins, seeing that she was really unwell, did
      not press her to go and as much as possible prevented her husband
      from pressing her; but Mr. Collins could not conceal his
      apprehension of Lady Catherine’s being rather displeased by her
      staying at home.




Chapter 34

      When they were gone, Elizabeth, as if intending to exasperate
      herself as much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for her
      employment the examination of all the letters which Jane had
      written to her since her being in Kent. They contained no actual
      complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any
      communication of present suffering. But in all, and in almost
      every line of each, there was a want of that cheerfulness which
      had been used to characterise her style, and which, proceeding
      from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly
      disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded.
      Elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of
      uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the
      first perusal. Mr. Darcy’s shameful boast of what misery he had
      been able to inflict, gave her a keener sense of her sister’s
      sufferings. It was some consolation to think that his visit to
      Rosings was to end on the day after the next—and, a still
      greater, that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with
      Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her
      spirits, by all that affection could do.

      She could not think of Darcy’s leaving Kent without remembering
      that his cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had
      made it clear that he had no intentions at all, and agreeable as
      he was, she did not mean to be unhappy about him.

      While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound
      of the door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the
      idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once
      before called late in the evening, and might now come to enquire
      particularly after her. But this idea was soon banished, and her
      spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter
      amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room. In an hurried
      manner he immediately began an enquiry after her health, imputing
      his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better. She answered
      him with cold civility. He sat down for a few moments, and then
      getting up, walked about the room. Elizabeth was surprised, but
      said not a word. After a silence of several minutes, he came
      towards her in an agitated manner, and thus began:

      “In vain I have struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not
      be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire
      and love you.”

      Elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared,
      coloured, doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient
      encouragement; and the avowal of all that he felt, and had long
      felt for her, immediately followed. He spoke well; but there were
      feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed; and he was
      not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride. His
      sense of her inferiority—of its being a degradation—of the family
      obstacles which had always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on
      with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was
      wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his suit.

      In spite of her deeply-rooted dislike, she could not be
      insensible to the compliment of such a man’s affection, and
      though her intentions did not vary for an instant, she was at
      first sorry for the pain he was to receive; till, roused to
      resentment by his subsequent language, she lost all compassion in
      anger. She tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with
      patience, when he should have done. He concluded with
      representing to her the strength of that attachment which, in
      spite of all his endeavours, he had found impossible to conquer;
      and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her
      acceptance of his hand. As he said this, she could easily see
      that he had no doubt of a favourable answer. He _spoke_ of
      apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real
      security. Such a circumstance could only exasperate farther, and,
      when he ceased, the colour rose into her cheeks, and she said:

      “In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to
      express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however
      unequally they may be returned. It is natural that obligation
      should be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now
      thank you. But I cannot—I have never desired your good opinion,
      and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry
      to have occasioned pain to anyone. It has been most unconsciously
      done, however, and I hope will be of short duration. The feelings
      which, you tell me, have long prevented the acknowledgment of
      your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming it after
      this explanation.”

      Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes
      fixed on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less
      resentment than surprise. His complexion became pale with anger,
      and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature. He
      was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not
      open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it. The
      pause was to Elizabeth’s feelings dreadful. At length, with a
      voice of forced calmness, he said:

      “And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of
      expecting! I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so
      little _endeavour_ at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of
      small importance.”

      “I might as well enquire,” replied she, “why with so evident a
      desire of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that
      you liked me against your will, against your reason, and even
      against your character? Was not this some excuse for incivility,
      if I _was_ uncivil? But I have other provocations. You know I
      have. Had not my feelings decided against you—had they been
      indifferent, or had they even been favourable, do you think that
      any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been
      the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most
      beloved sister?”

      As she pronounced these words, Mr. Darcy changed colour; but the
      emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to
      interrupt her while she continued:

      “I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive
      can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You
      dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if
      not the only means of dividing them from each other—of exposing
      one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, and
      the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving
      them both in misery of the acutest kind.”

      She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was
      listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any
      feeling of remorse. He even looked at her with a smile of
      affected incredulity.

      “Can you deny that you have done it?” she repeated.

      With assumed tranquillity he then replied: “I have no wish of
      denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend
      from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards _him_
      I have been kinder than towards myself.”

      Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil
      reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to
      conciliate her.

      “But it is not merely this affair,” she continued, “on which my
      dislike is founded. Long before it had taken place my opinion of
      you was decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which
      I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject,
      what can you have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can
      you here defend yourself? or under what misrepresentation can you
      here impose upon others?”

      “You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,” said
      Darcy, in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.

      “Who that knows what his misfortunes have been, can help feeling
      an interest in him?”

      “His misfortunes!” repeated Darcy contemptuously; “yes, his
      misfortunes have been great indeed.”

      “And of your infliction,” cried Elizabeth with energy. “You have
      reduced him to his present state of poverty—comparative poverty.
      You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been
      designed for him. You have deprived the best years of his life of
      that independence which was no less his due than his desert. You
      have done all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his
      misfortune with contempt and ridicule.”

      “And this,” cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the
      room, “is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you
      hold me! I thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults,
      according to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps,”
      added he, stopping in his walk, and turning towards her, “these
      offenses might have been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt
      by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented
      my forming any serious design. These bitter accusations might
      have been suppressed, had I, with greater policy, concealed my
      struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my being impelled
      by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by reflection,
      by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence. Nor
      am I ashamed of the feelings I related. They were natural and
      just. Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your
      connections?—to congratulate myself on the hope of relations,
      whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?”

      Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she
      tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said:

      “You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of
      your declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared
      me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you
      behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.”

      She saw him start at this, but he said nothing, and she
      continued:

      “You could not have made the offer of your hand in any possible
      way that would have tempted me to accept it.”

      Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
      expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. She went on:

      “From the very beginning—from the first moment, I may almost
      say—of my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with
      the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your
      selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form
      the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have
      built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month
      before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I
      could ever be prevailed on to marry.”

      “You have said quite enough, madam. I perfectly comprehend your
      feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have
      been. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and
      accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.”

      And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth
      heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house.

      The tumult of her mind, was now painfully great. She knew not how
      to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried
      for half-an-hour. Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had
      passed, was increased by every review of it. That she should
      receive an offer of marriage from Mr. Darcy! That he should have
      been in love with her for so many months! So much in love as to
      wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made
      him prevent his friend’s marrying her sister, and which must
      appear at least with equal force in his own case—was almost
      incredible! It was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so
      strong an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride—his
      shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to Jane—his
      unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not
      justify it, and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned
      Mr. Wickham, his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to
      deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his
      attachment had for a moment excited. She continued in very
      agitated reflections till the sound of Lady Catherine’s carriage
      made her feel how unequal she was to encounter Charlotte’s
      observation, and hurried her away to her room.




Chapter 35

      Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and
      meditations which had at length closed her eyes. She could not
      yet recover from the surprise of what had happened; it was
      impossible to think of anything else; and, totally indisposed for
      employment, she resolved, soon after breakfast, to indulge
      herself in air and exercise. She was proceeding directly to her
      favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy’s sometimes
      coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park, she
      turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike-road. The
      park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon
      passed one of the gates into the ground.

      After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she
      was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the
      gates and look into the park. The five weeks which she had now
      passed in Kent had made a great difference in the country, and
      every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees. She was
      on the point of continuing her walk, when she caught a glimpse of
      a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park; he was
      moving that way; and, fearful of its being Mr. Darcy, she was
      directly retreating. But the person who advanced was now near
      enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness,
      pronounced her name. She had turned away; but on hearing herself
      called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she
      moved again towards the gate. He had by that time reached it
      also, and, holding out a letter, which she instinctively took,
      said, with a look of haughty composure, “I have been walking in
      the grove some time in the hope of meeting you. Will you do me
      the honour of reading that letter?” And then, with a slight bow,
      turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of sight.

      With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest
      curiosity, Elizabeth opened the letter, and, to her still
      increasing wonder, perceived an envelope containing two sheets of
      letter-paper, written quite through, in a very close hand. The
      envelope itself was likewise full. Pursuing her way along the
      lane, she then began it. It was dated from Rosings, at eight
      o’clock in the morning, and was as follows:—

      “Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the
      apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiments
      or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to
      you. I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling
      myself, by dwelling on wishes which, for the happiness of both,
      cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation
      and the perusal of this letter must occasion, should have been
      spared, had not my character required it to be written and read.
      You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your
      attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but
      I demand it of your justice.

      “Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of
      equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first
      mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I
      had detached Mr. Bingley from your sister, and the other, that I
      had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and
      humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the
      prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and wantonly to have thrown
      off the companion of my youth, the acknowledged favourite of my
      father, a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on
      our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect its
      exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of two
      young persons, whose affection could be the growth of only a few
      weeks, could bear no comparison. But from the severity of that
      blame which was last night so liberally bestowed, respecting each
      circumstance, I shall hope to be in the future secured, when the
      following account of my actions and their motives has been read.
      If, in the explanation of them, which is due to myself, I am
      under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive
      to yours, I can only say that I am sorry. The necessity must be
      obeyed, and further apology would be absurd.

      “I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common
      with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any
      other young woman in the country. But it was not till the evening
      of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his
      feeling a serious attachment. I had often seen him in love
      before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you,
      I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas’s accidental
      information, that Bingley’s attentions to your sister had given
      rise to a general expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it
      as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
      From that moment I observed my friend’s behaviour attentively;
      and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was
      beyond what I had ever witnessed in him. Your sister I also
      watched. Her look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging
      as ever, but without any symptom of peculiar regard, and I
      remained convinced from the evening’s scrutiny, that though she
      received his attentions with pleasure, she did not invite them by
      any participation of sentiment. If _you_ have not been mistaken
      here, _I_ must have been in error. Your superior knowledge of
      your sister must make the latter probable. If it be so, if I have
      been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment
      has not been unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert,
      that the serenity of your sister’s countenance and air was such
      as might have given the most acute observer a conviction that,
      however amiable her temper, her heart was not likely to be easily
      touched. That I was desirous of believing her indifferent is
      certain—but I will venture to say that my investigation and
      decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears. I did
      not believe her to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed
      it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason. My
      objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last
      night acknowledged to have required the utmost force of passion
      to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be
      so great an evil to my friend as to me. But there were other
      causes of repugnance; causes which, though still existing, and
      existing to an equal degree in both instances, I had myself
      endeavoured to forget, because they were not immediately before
      me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The situation of
      your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in
      comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so
      almost uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger
      sisters, and occasionally even by your father. Pardon me. It
      pains me to offend you. But amidst your concern for the defects
      of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this
      representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider
      that, to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of
      the like censure, is praise no less generally bestowed on you and
      your elder sister, than it is honourable to the sense and
      disposition of both. I will only say farther that from what
      passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and
      every inducement heightened which could have led me before, to
      preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy
      connection. He left Netherfield for London, on the day following,
      as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon
      returning.

      “The part which I acted is now to be explained. His sisters’
      uneasiness had been equally excited with my own; our coincidence
      of feeling was soon discovered, and, alike sensible that no time
      was to be lost in detaching their brother, we shortly resolved on
      joining him directly in London. We accordingly went—and there I
      readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the
      certain evils of such a choice. I described, and enforced them
      earnestly. But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or
      delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would
      ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded
      by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister’s
      indifference. He had before believed her to return his affection
      with sincere, if not with equal regard. But Bingley has great
      natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than
      on his own. To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived
      himself, was no very difficult point. To persuade him against
      returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been
      given, was scarcely the work of a moment. I cannot blame myself
      for having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct in
      the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it
      is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to
      conceal from him your sister’s being in town. I knew it myself,
      as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet
      ignorant of it. That they might have met without ill consequence
      is perhaps probable; but his regard did not appear to me enough
      extinguished for him to see her without some danger. Perhaps this
      concealment, this disguise was beneath me; it is done, however,
      and it was done for the best. On this subject I have nothing more
      to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your
      sister’s feelings, it was unknowingly done and though the motives
      which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient,
      I have not yet learnt to condemn them.

      “With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having
      injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you
      the whole of his connection with my family. Of what he has
      _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what
      I shall relate, I can summon more than one witness of undoubted
      veracity.

      “Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for
      many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose
      good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my
      father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was
      his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed. My
      father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge—most
      important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the
      extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a
      gentleman’s education. My father was not only fond of this young
      man’s society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also
      the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his
      profession, intended to provide for him in it. As for myself, it
      is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very
      different manner. The vicious propensities—the want of principle,
      which he was careful to guard from the knowledge of his best
      friend, could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly
      the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of seeing
      him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy could not have. Here
      again I shall give you pain—to what degree you only can tell. But
      whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a
      suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his
      real character—it adds even another motive.

      “My excellent father died about five years ago; and his
      attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the last so steady, that in his
      will he particularly recommended it to me, to promote his
      advancement in the best manner that his profession might
      allow—and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family
      living might be his as soon as it became vacant. There was also a
      legacy of one thousand pounds. His own father did not long
      survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr.
      Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against
      taking orders, he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for
      him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of
      the preferment, by which he could not be benefited. He had some
      intention, he added, of studying law, and I must be aware that
      the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient
      support therein. I rather wished, than believed him to be
      sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his
      proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman;
      the business was therefore soon settled—he resigned all claim to
      assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever be
      in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three
      thousand pounds. All connection between us seemed now dissolved.
      I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his
      society in town. In town I believe he chiefly lived, but his
      studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free from all
      restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation. For
      about three years I heard little of him; but on the decease of
      the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he
      applied to me again by letter for the presentation. His
      circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in
      believing it, were exceedingly bad. He had found the law a most
      unprofitable study, and was now absolutely resolved on being
      ordained, if I would present him to the living in question—of
      which he trusted there could be little doubt, as he was well
      assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could
      not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions. You will
      hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for
      resisting every repetition to it. His resentment was in
      proportion to the distress of his circumstances—and he was
      doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others as in his
      reproaches to myself. After this period every appearance of
      acquaintance was dropped. How he lived I know not. But last
      summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.

      “I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget
      myself, and which no obligation less than the present should
      induce me to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I
      feel no doubt of your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten
      years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother’s
      nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and myself. About a year ago, she
      was taken from school, and an establishment formed for her in
      London; and last summer she went with the lady who presided over
      it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly
      by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance
      between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most
      unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid, he so far
      recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart
      retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child,
      that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and to consent
      to an elopement. She was then but fifteen, which must be her
      excuse; and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that
      I owed the knowledge of it to herself. I joined them unexpectedly
      a day or two before the intended elopement, and then Georgiana,
      unable to support the idea of grieving and offending a brother
      whom she almost looked up to as a father, acknowledged the whole
      to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my
      sister’s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but I
      wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mrs.
      Younge was of course removed from her charge. Mr. Wickham’s chief
      object was unquestionably my sister’s fortune, which is thirty
      thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of
      revenging himself on me was a strong inducement. His revenge
      would have been complete indeed.

      “This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we
      have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject
      it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty
      towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form
      of falsehood he had imposed on you; but his success is not
      perhaps to be wondered at. Ignorant as you previously were of
      everything concerning either, detection could not be in your
      power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.

      “You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last
      night; but I was not then master enough of myself to know what
      could or ought to be revealed. For the truth of everything here
      related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of
      Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant
      intimacy, and, still more, as one of the executors of my father’s
      will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of
      these transactions. If your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_
      assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by the same cause
      from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be the
      possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some
      opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of
      the morning. I will only add, God bless you.

      “FITZWILLIAM DARCY”




Chapter 36

      If Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect
      it to contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no
      expectation at all of its contents. But such as they were, it may
      well be supposed how eagerly she went through them, and what a
      contrariety of emotion they excited. Her feelings as she read
      were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did she first
      understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and
      steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation
      to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal. With a
      strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his
      account of what had happened at Netherfield. She read with an
      eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension, and from
      impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring, was
      incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes.
      His belief of her sister’s insensibility she instantly resolved
      to be false; and his account of the real, the worst objections to
      the match, made her too angry to have any wish of doing him
      justice. He expressed no regret for what he had done which
      satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty. It was
      all pride and insolence.

      But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr.
      Wickham—when she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation
      of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion
      of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own
      history of himself—her feelings were yet more acutely painful and
      more difficult of definition. Astonishment, apprehension, and
      even horror, oppressed her. She wished to discredit it entirely,
      repeatedly exclaiming, “This must be false! This cannot be! This
      must be the grossest falsehood!”—and when she had gone through
      the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the last
      page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that she would not
      regard it, that she would never look in it again.

      In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on
      nothing, she walked on; but it would not do; in half a minute the
      letter was unfolded again, and collecting herself as well as she
      could, she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related
      to Wickham, and commanded herself so far as to examine the
      meaning of every sentence. The account of his connection with the
      Pemberley family was exactly what he had related himself; and the
      kindness of the late Mr. Darcy, though she had not before known
      its extent, agreed equally well with his own words. So far each
      recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the
      difference was great. What Wickham had said of the living was
      fresh in her memory, and as she recalled his very words, it was
      impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side
      or the other; and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that
      her wishes did not err. But when she read and re-read with the
      closest attention, the particulars immediately following of
      Wickham’s resigning all pretensions to the living, of his
      receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds,
      again was she forced to hesitate. She put down the letter,
      weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be
      impartiality—deliberated on the probability of each statement—but
      with little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again
      she read on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair,
      which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could
      so represent as to render Mr. Darcy’s conduct in it less than
      infamous, was capable of a turn which must make him entirely
      blameless throughout the whole.

      The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to
      lay at Mr. Wickham’s charge, exceedingly shocked her; the more
      so, as she could bring no proof of its injustice. She had never
      heard of him before his entrance into the ——shire Militia, in
      which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man who, on
      meeting him accidentally in town, had there renewed a slight
      acquaintance. Of his former way of life nothing had been known in
      Hertfordshire but what he told himself. As to his real character,
      had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of
      enquiring. His countenance, voice, and manner had established him
      at once in the possession of every virtue. She tried to recollect
      some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity
      or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr.
      Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for
      those casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what
      Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’
      continuance. But no such recollection befriended her. She could
      see him instantly before her, in every charm of air and address;
      but she could remember no more substantial good than the general
      approbation of the neighbourhood, and the regard which his social
      powers had gained him in the mess. After pausing on this point a
      considerable while, she once more continued to read. But, alas!
      the story which followed, of his designs on Miss Darcy, received
      some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel
      Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at last she
      was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel
      Fitzwilliam himself—from whom she had previously received the
      information of his near concern in all his cousin’s affairs, and
      whose character she had no reason to question. At one time she
      had almost resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked
      by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly
      banished by the conviction that Mr. Darcy would never have
      hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been well assured of his
      cousin’s corroboration.

      She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in
      conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening
      at Mr. Phillips’s. Many of his expressions were still fresh in
      her memory. She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such
      communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her
      before. She saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he
      had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his
      conduct. She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear of
      seeing Mr. Darcy—that Mr. Darcy might leave the country, but that
      _he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the Netherfield
      ball the very next week. She remembered also that, till the
      Netherfield family had quitted the country, he had told his story
      to no one but herself; but that after their removal it had been
      everywhere discussed; that he had then no reserves, no scruples
      in sinking Mr. Darcy’s character, though he had assured her that
      respect for the father would always prevent his exposing the son.

      How differently did everything now appear in which he was
      concerned! His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence
      of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of
      her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but
      his eagerness to grasp at anything. His behaviour to herself
      could now have had no tolerable motive; he had either been
      deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying his
      vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had
      most incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in his favour
      grew fainter and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr.
      Darcy, she could not but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned
      by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair;
      that proud and repulsive as were his manners, she had never, in
      the whole course of their acquaintance—an acquaintance which had
      latterly brought them much together, and given her a sort of
      intimacy with his ways—seen anything that betrayed him to be
      unprincipled or unjust—anything that spoke him of irreligious or
      immoral habits; that among his own connections he was esteemed
      and valued—that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother,
      and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his
      sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling; that had
      his actions been what Mr. Wickham represented them, so gross a
      violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed
      from the world; and that friendship between a person capable of
      it, and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.

      She grew absolutely ashamed of herself. Of neither Darcy nor
      Wickham could she think without feeling she had been blind,
      partial, prejudiced, absurd.

      “How despicably I have acted!” she cried; “I, who have prided
      myself on my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my
      abilities! who have often disdained the generous candour of my
      sister, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameable mistrust!
      How humiliating is this discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation!
      Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind!
      But vanity, not love, has been my folly. Pleased with the
      preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on
      the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted
      prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either
      were concerned. Till this moment I never knew myself.”

      From herself to Jane—from Jane to Bingley, her thoughts were in a
      line which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. Darcy’s
      explanation _there_ had appeared very insufficient, and she read
      it again. Widely different was the effect of a second perusal.
      How could she deny that credit to his assertions in one instance,
      which she had been obliged to give in the other? He declared
      himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sister’s attachment;
      and she could not help remembering what Charlotte’s opinion had
      always been. Neither could she deny the justice of his
      description of Jane. She felt that Jane’s feelings, though
      fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant
      complacency in her air and manner not often united with great
      sensibility.

      When she came to that part of the letter in which her family were
      mentioned in terms of such mortifying, yet merited reproach, her
      sense of shame was severe. The justice of the charge struck her
      too forcibly for denial, and the circumstances to which he
      particularly alluded as having passed at the Netherfield ball,
      and as confirming all his first disapprobation, could not have
      made a stronger impression on his mind than on hers.

      The compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt. It
      soothed, but it could not console her for the contempt which had
      thus been self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she
      considered that Jane’s disappointment had in fact been the work
      of her nearest relations, and reflected how materially the credit
      of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct, she felt
      depressed beyond anything she had ever known before.

      After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
      variety of thought—re-considering events, determining
      probabilities, and reconciling herself, as well as she could, to
      a change so sudden and so important, fatigue, and a recollection
      of her long absence, made her at length return home; and she
      entered the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual,
      and the resolution of repressing such reflections as must make
      her unfit for conversation.

      She was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had
      each called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few
      minutes, to take leave—but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been
      sitting with them at least an hour, hoping for her return, and
      almost resolving to walk after her till she could be found.
      Elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern in missing him; she
      really rejoiced at it. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an
      object; she could think only of her letter.




Chapter 37

      The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning, and Mr. Collins
      having been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting
      obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of
      their appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits
      as could be expected, after the melancholy scene so lately gone
      through at Rosings. To Rosings he then hastened, to console Lady
      Catherine and her daughter; and on his return brought back, with
      great satisfaction, a message from her ladyship, importing that
      she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of having
      them all to dine with her.

      Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that,
      had she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to
      her as her future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of
      what her ladyship’s indignation would have been. “What would she
      have said? how would she have behaved?” were questions with which
      she amused herself.

      Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings party. “I
      assure you, I feel it exceedingly,” said Lady Catherine; “I
      believe no one feels the loss of friends so much as I do. But I
      am particularly attached to these young men, and know them to be
      so much attached to me! They were excessively sorry to go! But so
      they always are. The dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably
      till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it most acutely,
      more, I think, than last year. His attachment to Rosings
      certainly increases.”

      Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here,
      which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.

      Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed
      out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it herself, by
      supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon, she
      added:

      “But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg
      that you may stay a little longer. Mrs. Collins will be very glad
      of your company, I am sure.”

      “I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation,”
      replied Elizabeth, “but it is not in my power to accept it. I
      must be in town next Saturday.”

      “Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I
      expected you to stay two months. I told Mrs. Collins so before
      you came. There can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mrs.
      Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.”

      “But my father cannot. He wrote last week to hurry my return.”

      “Oh! your father of course may spare you, if your mother can.
      Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father. And if
      you will stay another _month_ complete, it will be in my power to
      take one of you as far as London, for I am going there early in
      June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the
      barouche-box, there will be very good room for one of you—and
      indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool, I should not
      object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large.”

      “You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our
      original plan.”

      Lady Catherine seemed resigned. “Mrs. Collins, you must send a
      servant with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot
      bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
      It is highly improper. You must contrive to send somebody. I have
      the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing. Young
      women should always be properly guarded and attended, according
      to their situation in life. When my niece Georgiana went to
      Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her having two
      men-servants go with her. Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr. Darcy,
      of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
      propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to
      all those things. You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs.
      Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would
      really be discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone.”

      “My uncle is to send a servant for us.”

      “Oh! Your uncle! He keeps a man-servant, does he? I am very glad
      you have somebody who thinks of these things. Where shall you
      change horses? Oh! Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at
      the Bell, you will be attended to.”

      Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their
      journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention
      was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or,
      with a mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
      Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was
      alone, she gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day
      went by without a solitary walk, in which she might indulge in
      all the delight of unpleasant recollections.

      Mr. Darcy’s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by
      heart. She studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its
      writer were at times widely different. When she remembered the
      style of his address, she was still full of indignation; but when
      she considered how unjustly she had condemned and upbraided him,
      her anger was turned against herself; and his disappointed
      feelings became the object of compassion. His attachment excited
      gratitude, his general character respect; but she could not
      approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal, or
      feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In her own
      past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and
      regret; and in the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of
      yet heavier chagrin. They were hopeless of remedy. Her father,
      contented with laughing at them, would never exert himself to
      restrain the wild giddiness of his youngest daughters; and her
      mother, with manners so far from right herself, was entirely
      insensible of the evil. Elizabeth had frequently united with Jane
      in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine and Lydia;
      but while they were supported by their mother’s indulgence, what
      chance could there be of improvement? Catherine, weak-spirited,
      irritable, and completely under Lydia’s guidance, had been always
      affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self-willed and careless,
      would scarcely give them a hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and
      vain. While there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt
      with him; and while Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they
      would be going there forever.

      Anxiety on Jane’s behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr.
      Darcy’s explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good
      opinion, heightened the sense of what Jane had lost. His
      affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct
      cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness
      of his confidence in his friend. How grievous then was the
      thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so
      replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had been
      deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family!

      When to these recollections was added the development of
      Wickham’s character, it may be easily believed that the happy
      spirits which had seldom been depressed before, were now so much
      affected as to make it almost impossible for her to appear
      tolerably cheerful.

      Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last
      week of her stay as they had been at first. The very last evening
      was spent there; and her ladyship again enquired minutely into
      the particulars of their journey, gave them directions as to the
      best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of
      placing gowns in the only right way, that Maria thought herself
      obliged, on her return, to undo all the work of the morning, and
      pack her trunk afresh.

      When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension,
      wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford
      again next year; and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to
      curtsey and hold out her hand to both.




Chapter 38

      On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a
      few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the
      opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed
      indispensably necessary.

      “I know not, Miss Elizabeth,” said he, “whether Mrs. Collins has
      yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I
      am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving
      her thanks for it. The favour of your company has been much felt,
      I assure you. We know how little there is to tempt anyone to our
      humble abode. Our plain manner of living, our small rooms and few
      domestics, and the little we see of the world, must make Hunsford
      extremely dull to a young lady like yourself; but I hope you will
      believe us grateful for the condescension, and that we have done
      everything in our power to prevent your spending your time
      unpleasantly.”

      Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
      She had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of
      being with Charlotte, and the kind attentions she had received,
      must make _her_ feel the obliged. Mr. Collins was gratified, and
      with a more smiling solemnity replied:

      “It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your
      time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most
      fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very
      superior society, and, from our connection with Rosings, the
      frequent means of varying the humble home scene, I think we may
      flatter ourselves that your Hunsford visit cannot have been
      entirely irksome. Our situation with regard to Lady Catherine’s
      family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing
      which few can boast. You see on what a footing we are. You see
      how continually we are engaged there. In truth I must acknowledge
      that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I
      should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion,
      while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings.”

      Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he
      was obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to
      unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.

      “You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into
      Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself at least that you
      will be able to do so. Lady Catherine’s great attentions to Mrs.
      Collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust
      it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate—but
      on this point it will be as well to be silent. Only let me assure
      you, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that I can from my heart most
      cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage. My dear Charlotte
      and I have but one mind and one way of thinking. There is in
      everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas
      between us. We seem to have been designed for each other.”

      Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where
      that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she
      firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. She was
      not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by
      the lady from whom they sprang. Poor Charlotte! it was melancholy
      to leave her to such society! But she had chosen it with her eyes
      open; and though evidently regretting that her visitors were to
      go, she did not seem to ask for compassion. Her home and her
      housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their dependent
      concerns, had not yet lost their charms.

      At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the
      parcels placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After
      an affectionate parting between the friends, Elizabeth was
      attended to the carriage by Mr. Collins, and as they walked down
      the garden he was commissioning her with his best respects to all
      her family, not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had
      received at Longbourn in the winter, and his compliments to Mr.
      and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown. He then handed her in, Maria
      followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he
      suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
      hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at
      Rosings.

      “But,” he added, “you will of course wish to have your humble
      respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their
      kindness to you while you have been here.”

      Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be
      shut, and the carriage drove off.

      “Good gracious!” cried Maria, after a few minutes’ silence, “it
      seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many
      things have happened!”

      “A great many indeed,” said her companion with a sigh.

      “We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there
      twice! How much I shall have to tell!”

      Elizabeth added privately, “And how much I shall have to
      conceal!”

      Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any
      alarm; and within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they
      reached Mr. Gardiner’s house, where they were to remain a few
      days.

      Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of
      studying her spirits, amidst the various engagements which the
      kindness of her aunt had reserved for them. But Jane was to go
      home with her, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for
      observation.

      It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even
      for Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr. Darcy’s
      proposals. To know that she had the power of revealing what would
      so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so
      highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been
      able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing
      could have conquered but the state of indecision in which she
      remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her
      fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into
      repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister
      further.




Chapter 39

      It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies
      set out together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ——, in
      Hertfordshire; and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr.
      Bennet’s carriage was to meet them, they quickly perceived, in
      token of the coachman’s punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking
      out of a dining-room up stairs. These two girls had been above an
      hour in the place, happily employed in visiting an opposite
      milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad
      and cucumber.

      After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a
      table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually
      affords, exclaiming, “Is not this nice? Is not this an agreeable
      surprise?”

      “And we mean to treat you all,” added Lydia, “but you must lend
      us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.”
      Then, showing her purchases—“Look here, I have bought this
      bonnet. I do not think it is very pretty; but I thought I might
      as well buy it as not. I shall pull it to pieces as soon as I get
      home, and see if I can make it up any better.”

      And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect
      unconcern, “Oh! but there were two or three much uglier in the
      shop; and when I have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim
      it with fresh, I think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it
      will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the
      ——shire have left Meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.”

      “Are they indeed!” cried Elizabeth, with the greatest
      satisfaction.

      “They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want
      papa to take us all there for the summer! It would be such a
      delicious scheme; and I dare say would hardly cost anything at
      all. Mamma would like to go too of all things! Only think what a
      miserable summer else we shall have!”

      “Yes,” thought Elizabeth, “_that_ would be a delightful scheme
      indeed, and completely do for us at once. Good Heaven! Brighton,
      and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset
      already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of
      Meryton!”

      “Now I have got some news for you,” said Lydia, as they sat down
      at table. “What do you think? It is excellent news—capital
      news—and about a certain person we all like!”

      Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told
      he need not stay. Lydia laughed, and said:

      “Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion. You
      thought the waiter must not hear, as if he cared! I dare say he
      often hears worse things said than I am going to say. But he is
      an ugly fellow! I am glad he is gone. I never saw such a long
      chin in my life. Well, but now for my news; it is about dear
      Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not? There is no danger
      of Wickham’s marrying Mary King. There’s for you! She is gone
      down to her uncle at Liverpool: gone to stay. Wickham is safe.”

      “And Mary King is safe!” added Elizabeth; “safe from a connection
      imprudent as to fortune.”

      “She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him.”

      “But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side,” said
      Jane.

      “I am sure there is not on _his_. I will answer for it, he never
      cared three straws about her—who _could_ about such a nasty
      little freckled thing?”

      Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such
      coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the
      _sentiment_ was little other than her own breast had harboured
      and fancied liberal!

      As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was
      ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all
      their boxes, work-bags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition
      of Kitty’s and Lydia’s purchases, were seated in it.

      “How nicely we are all crammed in,” cried Lydia. “I am glad I
      bought my bonnet, if it is only for the fun of having another
      bandbox! Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk
      and laugh all the way home. And in the first place, let us hear
      what has happened to you all since you went away. Have you seen
      any pleasant men? Have you had any flirting? I was in great hopes
      that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
      Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare. She is almost
      three-and-twenty! Lord, how ashamed I should be of not being
      married before three-and-twenty! My aunt Phillips wants you so to
      get husbands, you can’t think. She says Lizzy had better have
      taken Mr. Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any
      fun in it. Lord! how I should like to be married before any of
      you; and then I would _chaperon_ you about to all the balls. Dear
      me! we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel
      Forster’s. Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and Mrs.
      Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by the
      bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so she asked
      the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen was
      forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We
      dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s clothes on purpose to pass for
      a lady, only think what fun! Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel
      and Mrs. Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were
      forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how
      well he looked! When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or
      three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the
      least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs. Forster. I thought I
      should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect something, and
      then they soon found out what was the matter.”

      With such kinds of histories of their parties and good jokes, did
      Lydia, assisted by Kitty’s hints and additions, endeavour to
      amuse her companions all the way to Longbourn. Elizabeth listened
      as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent
      mention of Wickham’s name.

      Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to
      see Jane in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner
      did Mr. Bennet say voluntarily to Elizabeth:

      “I am glad you are come back, Lizzy.”

      Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the
      Lucases came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were
      the subjects that occupied them: Lady Lucas was enquiring of
      Maria, after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs.
      Bennet was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of
      the present fashions from Jane, who sat some way below her, and,
      on the other, retailing them all to the younger Lucases; and
      Lydia, in a voice rather louder than any other person’s, was
      enumerating the various pleasures of the morning to anybody who
      would hear her.

      “Oh! Mary,” said she, “I wish you had gone with us, for we had
      such fun! As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and
      pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone
      so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to
      the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated
      the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and
      if you would have gone, we would have treated you too. And then
      when we came away it was such fun! I thought we never should have
      got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter. And then we
      were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so loud,
      that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!”

      To this Mary very gravely replied, “Far be it from me, my dear
      sister, to depreciate such pleasures! They would doubtless be
      congenial with the generality of female minds. But I confess they
      would have no charms for _me_—I should infinitely prefer a book.”

      But of this answer Lydia heard not a word. She seldom listened to
      anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary
      at all.

      In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to
      walk to Meryton, and to see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth
      steadily opposed the scheme. It should not be said that the Miss
      Bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in
      pursuit of the officers. There was another reason too for her
      opposition. She dreaded seeing Mr. Wickham again, and was
      resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to _her_ of
      the regiment’s approaching removal was indeed beyond expression.
      In a fortnight they were to go—and once gone, she hoped there
      could be nothing more to plague her on his account.

      She had not been many hours at home before she found that the
      Brighton scheme, of which Lydia had given them a hint at the inn,
      was under frequent discussion between her parents. Elizabeth saw
      directly that her father had not the smallest intention of
      yielding; but his answers were at the same time so vague and
      equivocal, that her mother, though often disheartened, had never
      yet despaired of succeeding at last.




Chapter 40

      Elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened
      could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress
      every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing
      her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the
      chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and herself.

      Miss Bennet’s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong
      sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear
      perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other
      feelings. She was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his
      sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them; but
      still more was she grieved for the unhappiness which her sister’s
      refusal must have given him.

      “His being so sure of succeeding was wrong,” said she, “and
      certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it
      must increase his disappointment!”

      “Indeed,” replied Elizabeth, “I am heartily sorry for him; but he
      has other feelings, which will probably soon drive away his
      regard for me. You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?”

      “Blame you! Oh, no.”

      “But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?”

      “No—I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.”

      “But you _will_ know it, when I tell you what happened the very
      next day.”

      She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents
      as far as they concerned George Wickham. What a stroke was this
      for poor Jane! who would willingly have gone through the world
      without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole
      race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual. Nor was
      Darcy’s vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of
      consoling her for such discovery. Most earnestly did she labour
      to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear the one
      without involving the other.

      “This will not do,” said Elizabeth; “you never will be able to
      make both of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you
      must be satisfied with only one. There is but such a quantity of
      merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and
      of late it has been shifting about pretty much. For my part, I am
      inclined to believe it all Darcy’s; but you shall do as you
      choose.”

      It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from
      Jane.

      “I do not know when I have been more shocked,” said she. “Wickham
      so very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! Dear
      Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered. Such a
      disappointment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion, too!
      and having to relate such a thing of his sister! It is really too
      distressing. I am sure you must feel it so.”

      “Oh! no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you
      so full of both. I know you will do him such ample justice, that
      I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your
      profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much
      longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.”

      “Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his
      countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner!”

      “There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of
      those two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other
      all the appearance of it.”

      “I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the _appearance_ of it
      as you used to do.”

      “And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a
      dislike to him, without any reason. It is such a spur to one’s
      genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind.
      One may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but
      one cannot always be laughing at a man without now and then
      stumbling on something witty.”

      “Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not
      treat the matter as you do now.”

      “Indeed, I could not. I was uncomfortable enough, I may say
      unhappy. And with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane
      to comfort me and say that I had not been so very weak and vain
      and nonsensical as I knew I had! Oh! how I wanted you!”

      “How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong
      expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they
      _do_ appear wholly undeserved.”

      “Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a
      most natural consequence of the prejudices I had been
      encouraging. There is one point on which I want your advice. I
      want to be told whether I ought, or ought not, to make our
      acquaintances in general understand Wickham’s character.”

      Miss Bennet paused a little, and then replied, “Surely there can
      be no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your
      opinion?”

      “That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. Darcy has not authorised
      me to make his communication public. On the contrary, every
      particular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as
      possible to myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to
      the rest of his conduct, who will believe me? The general
      prejudice against Mr. Darcy is so violent, that it would be the
      death of half the good people in Meryton to attempt to place him
      in an amiable light. I am not equal to it. Wickham will soon be
      gone; and therefore it will not signify to anyone here what he
      really is. Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we
      may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before. At present
      I will say nothing about it.”

      “You are quite right. To have his errors made public might ruin
      him for ever. He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and
      anxious to re-establish a character. We must not make him
      desperate.”

      The tumult of Elizabeth’s mind was allayed by this conversation.
      She had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her
      for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane,
      whenever she might wish to talk again of either. But there was
      still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the
      disclosure. She dared not relate the other half of Mr. Darcy’s
      letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been
      valued by her friend. Here was knowledge in which no one could
      partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than a perfect
      understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing
      off this last encumbrance of mystery. “And then,” said she, “if
      that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely
      be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable
      manner himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till
      it has lost all its value!”

      She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the
      real state of her sister’s spirits. Jane was not happy. She still
      cherished a very tender affection for Bingley. Having never even
      fancied herself in love before, her regard had all the warmth of
      first attachment, and, from her age and disposition, greater
      steadiness than most first attachments often boast; and so
      fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to every
      other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the
      feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence
      of those regrets which must have been injurious to her own health
      and their tranquillity.

      “Well, Lizzy,” said Mrs. Bennet one day, “what is your opinion
      _now_ of this sad business of Jane’s? For my part, I am
      determined never to speak of it again to anybody. I told my
      sister Phillips so the other day. But I cannot find out that Jane
      saw anything of him in London. Well, he is a very undeserving
      young man—and I do not suppose there’s the least chance in the
      world of her ever getting him now. There is no talk of his coming
      to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have enquired of
      everybody, too, who is likely to know.”

      “I do not believe he will ever live at Netherfield any more.”

      “Oh well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come.
      Though I shall always say he used my daughter extremely ill; and
      if I was her, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort
      is, I am sure Jane will die of a broken heart; and then he will
      be sorry for what he has done.”

      But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such
      expectation, she made no answer.

      “Well, Lizzy,” continued her mother, soon afterwards, “and so the
      Collinses live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, I only hope
      it will last. And what sort of table do they keep? Charlotte is
      an excellent manager, I dare say. If she is half as sharp as her
      mother, she is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in
      _their_ housekeeping, I dare say.”

      “No, nothing at all.”

      “A great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes.
      _They_ will take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will
      never be distressed for money. Well, much good may it do them!
      And so, I suppose, they often talk of having Longbourn when your
      father is dead. They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say,
      whenever that happens.”

      “It was a subject which they could not mention before me.”

      “No; it would have been strange if they had; but I make no doubt
      they often talk of it between themselves. Well, if they can be
      easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the
      better. _I_ should be ashamed of having one that was only
      entailed on me.”




Chapter 41

      The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began.
      It was the last of the regiment’s stay in Meryton, and all the
      young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The
      dejection was almost universal. The elder Miss Bennets alone were
      still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course
      of their employments. Very frequently were they reproached for
      this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was
      extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in
      any of the family.

      “Good Heaven! what is to become of us? What are we to do?” would
      they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. “How can you be
      smiling so, Lizzy?”

      Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered
      what she had herself endured on a similar occasion,
      five-and-twenty years ago.

      “I am sure,” said she, “I cried for two days together when
      Colonel Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have
      broken my heart.”

      “I am sure I shall break _mine_,” said Lydia.

      “If one could but go to Brighton!” observed Mrs. Bennet.

      “Oh, yes!—if one could but go to Brighton! But papa is so
      disagreeable.”

      “A little sea-bathing would set me up forever.”

      “And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of
      good,” added Kitty.

      Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through
      Longbourn House. Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all
      sense of pleasure was lost in shame. She felt anew the justice of
      Mr. Darcy’s objections; and never had she been so much disposed
      to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.

      But the gloom of Lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for
      she received an invitation from Mrs. Forster, the wife of the
      colonel of the regiment, to accompany her to Brighton. This
      invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately
      married. A resemblance in good humour and good spirits had
      recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of their _three_
      months’ acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.

      The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs.
      Forster, the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of
      Kitty, are scarcely to be described. Wholly inattentive to her
      sister’s feelings, Lydia flew about the house in restless
      ecstasy, calling for everyone’s congratulations, and laughing and
      talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kitty
      continued in the parlour repining at her fate in terms as
      unreasonable as her accent was peevish.

      “I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as
      Lydia,” said she, “Though I am _not_ her particular friend. I
      have just as much right to be asked as she has, and more too, for
      I am two years older.”

      In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to
      make her resigned. As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was
      so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother
      and Lydia, that she considered it as the death warrant of all
      possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as
      such a step must make her were it known, she could not help
      secretly advising her father not to let her go. She represented
      to him all the improprieties of Lydia’s general behaviour, the
      little advantage she could derive from the friendship of such a
      woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more
      imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the
      temptations must be greater than at home. He heard her
      attentively, and then said:

      “Lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in some
      public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with
      so little expense or inconvenience to her family as under the
      present circumstances.”

      “If you were aware,” said Elizabeth, “of the very great
      disadvantage to us all which must arise from the public notice of
      Lydia’s unguarded and imprudent manner—nay, which has already
      arisen from it, I am sure you would judge differently in the
      affair.”

      “Already arisen?” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What, has she frightened
      away some of your lovers? Poor little Lizzy! But do not be cast
      down. Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a
      little absurdity are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the
      list of pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s
      folly.”

      “Indeed you are mistaken. I have no such injuries to resent. It
      is not of particular, but of general evils, which I am now
      complaining. Our importance, our respectability in the world must
      be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of
      all restraint which mark Lydia’s character. Excuse me, for I must
      speak plainly. If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble
      of checking her exuberant spirits, and of teaching her that her
      present pursuits are not to be the business of her life, she will
      soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her character will be
      fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
      that ever made herself or her family ridiculous; a flirt, too, in
      the worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any
      attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person; and, from the
      ignorance and emptiness of her mind, wholly unable to ward off
      any portion of that universal contempt which her rage for
      admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty also is
      comprehended. She will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain,
      ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh! my dear father,
      can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and
      despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not
      be often involved in the disgrace?”

      Mr. Bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject, and
      affectionately taking her hand said in reply:

      “Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and Jane are
      known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear
      to less advantage for having a couple of—or I may say, three—very
      silly sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does
      not go to Brighton. Let her go, then. Colonel Forster is a
      sensible man, and will keep her out of any real mischief; and she
      is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody. At
      Brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt
      than she has been here. The officers will find women better worth
      their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may
      teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow
      many degrees worse, without authorising us to lock her up for the
      rest of her life.”

      With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own
      opinion continued the same, and she left him disappointed and
      sorry. It was not in her nature, however, to increase her
      vexations by dwelling on them. She was confident of having
      performed her duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or
      augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.

      Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference
      with her father, their indignation would hardly have found
      expression in their united volubility. In Lydia’s imagination, a
      visit to Brighton comprised every possibility of earthly
      happiness. She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets
      of that gay bathing-place covered with officers. She saw herself
      the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at present
      unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp—its tents stretched
      forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young
      and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the
      view, she saw herself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting
      with at least six officers at once.

      Had she known her sister sought to tear her from such prospects
      and such realities as these, what would have been her sensations?
      They could have been understood only by her mother, who might
      have felt nearly the same. Lydia’s going to Brighton was all that
      consoled her for her melancholy conviction of her husband’s never
      intending to go there himself.

      But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their
      raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of
      Lydia’s leaving home.

      Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having
      been frequently in company with him since her return, agitation
      was pretty well over; the agitations of former partiality
      entirely so. She had even learnt to detect, in the very
      gentleness which had first delighted her, an affectation and a
      sameness to disgust and weary. In his present behaviour to
      herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure, for the
      inclination he soon testified of renewing those intentions which
      had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve,
      after what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost all concern
      for him in finding herself thus selected as the object of such
      idle and frivolous gallantry; and while she steadily repressed
      it, could not but feel the reproof contained in his believing,
      that however long, and for whatever cause, his attentions had
      been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified, and her preference
      secured at any time by their renewal.

      On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining at Meryton, he
      dined, with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little
      was Elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour, that on
      his making some enquiry as to the manner in which her time had
      passed at Hunsford, she mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr.
      Darcy’s having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked him,
      if he was acquainted with the former.

      He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with a moment’s
      recollection and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly
      seen him often; and, after observing that he was a very
      gentlemanlike man, asked her how she had liked him. Her answer
      was warmly in his favour. With an air of indifference he soon
      afterwards added:

      “How long did you say he was at Rosings?”

      “Nearly three weeks.”

      “And you saw him frequently?”

      “Yes, almost every day.”

      “His manners are very different from his cousin’s.”

      “Yes, very different. But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon
      acquaintance.”

      “Indeed!” cried Mr. Wickham with a look which did not escape her.
      “And pray, may I ask?—” But checking himself, he added, in a
      gayer tone, “Is it in address that he improves? Has he deigned to
      add aught of civility to his ordinary style?—for I dare not
      hope,” he continued in a lower and more serious tone, “that he is
      improved in essentials.”

      “Oh, no!” said Elizabeth. “In essentials, I believe, he is very
      much what he ever was.”

      While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
      rejoice over her words, or to distrust their meaning. There was a
      something in her countenance which made him listen with an
      apprehensive and anxious attention, while she added:

      “When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean
      that his mind or his manners were in a state of improvement, but
      that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better
      understood.”

      Wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and
      agitated look; for a few minutes he was silent, till, shaking off
      his embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the
      gentlest of accents:

      “You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily
      comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to
      assume even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that
      direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others,
      for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have
      suffered by. I only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which
      you, I imagine, have been alluding, is merely adopted on his
      visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and judgement he stands
      much in awe. His fear of her has always operated, I know, when
      they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his wish
      of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain
      he has very much at heart.”

      Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered
      only by a slight inclination of the head. She saw that he wanted
      to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was
      in no humour to indulge him. The rest of the evening passed with
      the _appearance_, on his side, of usual cheerfulness, but with no
      further attempt to distinguish Elizabeth; and they parted at last
      with mutual civility, and possibly a mutual desire of never
      meeting again.

      When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to
      Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
      The separation between her and her family was rather noisy than
      pathetic. Kitty was the only one who shed tears; but she did weep
      from vexation and envy. Mrs. Bennet was diffuse in her good
      wishes for the felicity of her daughter, and impressive in her
      injunctions that she should not miss the opportunity of enjoying
      herself as much as possible—advice which there was every reason
      to believe would be well attended to; and in the clamorous
      happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle
      adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard.




Chapter 42

      Had Elizabeth’s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she
      could not have formed a very pleasing opinion of conjugal
      felicity or domestic comfort. Her father, captivated by youth and
      beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty
      generally give, had married a woman whose weak understanding and
      illiberal mind had very early in their marriage put an end to all
      real affection for her. Respect, esteem, and confidence had
      vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were
      overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a disposition to seek
      comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had
      brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often console the
      unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of the
      country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his
      principal enjoyments. To his wife he was very little otherwise
      indebted, than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his
      amusement. This is not the sort of happiness which a man would in
      general wish to owe to his wife; but where other powers of
      entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive
      benefit from such as are given.

      Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of
      her father’s behaviour as a husband. She had always seen it with
      pain; but respecting his abilities, and grateful for his
      affectionate treatment of herself, she endeavoured to forget what
      she could not overlook, and to banish from her thoughts that
      continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which, in
      exposing his wife to the contempt of her own children, was so
      highly reprehensible. But she had never felt so strongly as now
      the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable
      a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising
      from so ill-judged a direction of talents; talents, which,
      rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of
      his daughters, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his
      wife.

      When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure she found
      little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
      Their parties abroad were less varied than before, and at home
      she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the
      dullness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their
      domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain her
      natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of her brain were
      removed, her other sister, from whose disposition greater evil
      might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her folly
      and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a
      watering-place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, she found,
      what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she
      had looked forward with impatient desire did not, in taking
      place, bring all the satisfaction she had promised herself. It
      was consequently necessary to name some other period for the
      commencement of actual felicity—to have some other point on which
      her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the
      pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the present, and
      prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the Lakes was now
      the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation
      for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her
      mother and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included
      Jane in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.

      “But it is fortunate,” thought she, “that I have something to
      wish for. Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment
      would be certain. But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless
      source of regret in my sister’s absence, I may reasonably hope to
      have all my expectations of pleasure realised. A scheme of which
      every part promises delight can never be successful; and general
      disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little
      peculiar vexation.”

      When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very
      minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always
      long expected, and always very short. Those to her mother
      contained little else than that they were just returned from the
      library, where such and such officers had attended them, and
      where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as made her quite
      wild; that she had a new gown, or a new parasol, which she would
      have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a
      violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called her, and they were going
      off to the camp; and from her correspondence with her sister,
      there was still less to be learnt—for her letters to Kitty,
      though rather longer, were much too full of lines under the words
      to be made public.

      After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health,
      good humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn.
      Everything wore a happier aspect. The families who had been in
      town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer
      engagements arose. Mrs. Bennet was restored to her usual
      querulous serenity; and, by the middle of June, Kitty was so much
      recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears; an event
      of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth hope that by the
      following Christmas she might be so tolerably reasonable as not
      to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by some cruel and
      malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should
      be quartered in Meryton.

      The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now
      fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a
      letter arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed its
      commencement and curtailed its extent. Mr. Gardiner would be
      prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in
      July, and must be in London again within a month, and as that
      left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as
      they had proposed, or at least to see it with the leisure and
      comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up the
      Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour, and, according to
      the present plan, were to go no farther northwards than
      Derbyshire. In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy
      the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a
      peculiarly strong attraction. The town where she had formerly
      passed some years of her life, and where they were now to spend a
      few days, was probably as great an object of her curiosity as all
      the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth, Dovedale, or the
      Peak.

      Elizabeth was excessively disappointed; she had set her heart on
      seeing the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time
      enough. But it was her business to be satisfied—and certainly her
      temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.

      With the mention of Derbyshire there were many ideas connected.
      It was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of
      Pemberley and its owner. “But surely,” said she, “I may enter his
      county with impunity, and rob it of a few petrified spars without
      his perceiving me.”

      The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to
      pass away before her uncle and aunt’s arrival. But they did pass
      away, and Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, with their four children, did at
      length appear at Longbourn. The children, two girls of six and
      eight years old, and two younger boys, were to be left under the
      particular care of their cousin Jane, who was the general
      favourite, and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly
      adapted her for attending to them in every way—teaching them,
      playing with them, and loving them.

      The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the
      next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
      One enjoyment was certain—that of suitableness of companions; a
      suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear
      inconveniences—cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure—and
      affection and intelligence, which might supply it among
      themselves if there were disappointments abroad.

      It is not the object of this work to give a description of
      Derbyshire, nor of any of the remarkable places through which
      their route thither lay; Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth,
      Birmingham, etc. are sufficiently known. A small part of
      Derbyshire is all the present concern. To the little town of
      Lambton, the scene of Mrs. Gardiner’s former residence, and where
      she had lately learned some acquaintance still remained, they
      bent their steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of
      the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elizabeth found
      from her aunt that Pemberley was situated. It was not in their
      direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of it. In talking
      over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed an
      inclination to see the place again. Mr. Gardiner declared his
      willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.

      “My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have
      heard so much?” said her aunt; “a place, too, with which so many
      of your acquaintances are connected. Wickham passed all his youth
      there, you know.”

      Elizabeth was distressed. She felt that she had no business at
      Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing
      it. She must own that she was tired of seeing great houses; after
      going over so many, she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or
      satin curtains.

      Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity. “If it were merely a fine
      house richly furnished,” said she, “I should not care about it
      myself; but the grounds are delightful. They have some of the
      finest woods in the country.”

      Elizabeth said no more—but her mind could not acquiesce. The
      possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place,
      instantly occurred. It would be dreadful! She blushed at the very
      idea, and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt
      than to run such a risk. But against this there were objections;
      and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource, if
      her private enquiries to the absence of the family were
      unfavourably answered.

      Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid
      whether Pemberley were not a very fine place? what was the name
      of its proprietor? and, with no little alarm, whether the family
      were down for the summer? A most welcome negative followed the
      last question—and her alarms now being removed, she was at
      leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house
      herself; and when the subject was revived the next morning, and
      she was again applied to, could readily answer, and with a proper
      air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike to the
      scheme. To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.




Chapter 43

      Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance
      of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length
      they turned in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.

      The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
      They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some
      time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.

      Elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and
      admired every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually
      ascended for half-a-mile, and then found themselves at the top of
      a considerable eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was
      instantly caught by Pemberley House, situated on the opposite
      side of a valley, into which the road with some abruptness wound.
      It was a large, handsome stone building, standing well on rising
      ground, and backed by a ridge of high woody hills; and in front,
      a stream of some natural importance was swelled into greater, but
      without any artificial appearance. Its banks were neither formal
      nor falsely adorned. Elizabeth was delighted. She had never seen
      a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty
      had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were
      all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt
      that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!

      They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the
      door; and, while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all
      her apprehension of meeting its owner returned. She dreaded lest
      the chambermaid had been mistaken. On applying to see the place,
      they were admitted into the hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited
      for the housekeeper, had leisure to wonder at her being where she
      was.

      The housekeeper came; a respectable-looking elderly woman, much
      less fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding
      her. They followed her into the dining-parlour. It was a large,
      well proportioned room, handsomely fitted up. Elizabeth, after
      slightly surveying it, went to a window to enjoy its prospect.
      The hill, crowned with wood, which they had descended, receiving
      increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
      Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the
      whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the
      winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with
      delight. As they passed into other rooms these objects were
      taking different positions; but from every window there were
      beauties to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their
      furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor; but
      Elizabeth saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither
      gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real
      elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.

      “And of this place,” thought she, “I might have been mistress!
      With these rooms I might now have been familiarly acquainted!
      Instead of viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in
      them as my own, and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and
      aunt. But no,”—recollecting herself—“that could never be; my
      uncle and aunt would have been lost to me; I should not have been
      allowed to invite them.”

      This was a lucky recollection—it saved her from something very
      like regret.

      She longed to enquire of the housekeeper whether her master was
      really absent, but had not the courage for it. At length however,
      the question was asked by her uncle; and she turned away with
      alarm, while Mrs. Reynolds replied that he was, adding, “But we
      expect him to-morrow, with a large party of friends.” How
      rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any
      circumstance been delayed a day!

      Her aunt now called her to look at a picture. She approached and
      saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other
      miniatures, over the mantelpiece. Her aunt asked her, smilingly,
      how she liked it. The housekeeper came forward, and told them it
      was a picture of a young gentleman, the son of her late master’s
      steward, who had been brought up by him at his own expense. “He
      is now gone into the army,” she added; “but I am afraid he has
      turned out very wild.”

      Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth
      could not return it.

      “And that,” said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the
      miniatures, “is my master—and very like him. It was drawn at the
      same time as the other—about eight years ago.”

      “I have heard much of your master’s fine person,” said Mrs.
      Gardiner, looking at the picture; “it is a handsome face. But,
      Lizzy, you can tell us whether it is like or not.”

      Mrs. Reynolds respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this
      intimation of her knowing her master.

      “Does that young lady know Mr. Darcy?”

      Elizabeth coloured, and said: “A little.”

      “And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma’am?”

      “Yes, very handsome.”

      “I am sure _I_ know none so handsome; but in the gallery up
      stairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this.
      This room was my late master’s favourite room, and these
      miniatures are just as they used to be then. He was very fond of
      them.”

      This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham’s being among them.

      Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy,
      drawn when she was only eight years old.

      “And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?” said Mrs.
      Gardiner.

      “Oh! yes—the handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so
      accomplished!—She plays and sings all day long. In the next room
      is a new instrument just come down for her—a present from my
      master; she comes here to-morrow with him.”

      Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were very easy and pleasant,
      encouraged her communicativeness by his questions and remarks;
      Mrs. Reynolds, either by pride or attachment, had evidently great
      pleasure in talking of her master and his sister.

      “Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?”

      “Not so much as I could wish, sir; but I dare say he may spend
      half his time here; and Miss Darcy is always down for the summer
      months.”

      “Except,” thought Elizabeth, “when she goes to Ramsgate.”

      “If your master would marry, you might see more of him.”

      “Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be. I do not know
      who is good enough for him.”

      Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled. Elizabeth could not help saying,
      “It is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think
      so.”

      “I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows
      him,” replied the other. Elizabeth thought this was going pretty
      far; and she listened with increasing astonishment as the
      housekeeper added, “I have never known a cross word from him in
      my life, and I have known him ever since he was four years old.”

      This was praise, of all others most extraordinary, most opposite
      to her ideas. That he was not a good-tempered man had been her
      firmest opinion. Her keenest attention was awakened; she longed
      to hear more, and was grateful to her uncle for saying:

      “There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are
      lucky in having such a master.”

      “Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I
      could not meet with a better. But I have always observed, that
      they who are good-natured when children, are good-natured when
      they grow up; and he was always the sweetest-tempered, most
      generous-hearted boy in the world.”

      Elizabeth almost stared at her. “Can this be Mr. Darcy?” thought
      she.

      “His father was an excellent man,” said Mrs. Gardiner.

      “Yes, ma’am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like
      him—just as affable to the poor.”

      Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for
      more. Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point. She
      related the subjects of the pictures, the dimensions of the
      rooms, and the price of the furniture, in vain. Mr. Gardiner,
      highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he
      attributed her excessive commendation of her master, soon led
      again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his many
      merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.

      “He is the best landlord, and the best master,” said she, “that
      ever lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of
      nothing but themselves. There is not one of his tenants or
      servants but will give him a good name. Some people call him
      proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it. To my fancy, it
      is only because he does not rattle away like other young men.”

      “In what an amiable light does this place him!” thought
      Elizabeth.

      “This fine account of him,” whispered her aunt as they walked,
      “is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.”

      “Perhaps we might be deceived.”

      “That is not very likely; our authority was too good.”

      On reaching the spacious lobby above they were shown into a very
      pretty sitting-room, lately fitted up with greater elegance and
      lightness than the apartments below; and were informed that it
      was but just done to give pleasure to Miss Darcy, who had taken a
      liking to the room when last at Pemberley.

      “He is certainly a good brother,” said Elizabeth, as she walked
      towards one of the windows.

      Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy’s delight, when she should
      enter the room. “And this is always the way with him,” she added.
      “Whatever can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in
      a moment. There is nothing he would not do for her.”

      The picture-gallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms,
      were all that remained to be shown. In the former were many good
      paintings; but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such
      as had been already visible below, she had willingly turned to
      look at some drawings of Miss Darcy’s, in crayons, whose subjects
      were usually more interesting, and also more intelligible.

      In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could
      have little to fix the attention of a stranger. Elizabeth walked
      in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
      At last it arrested her—and she beheld a striking resemblance to
      Mr. Darcy, with such a smile over the face as she remembered to
      have sometimes seen when he looked at her. She stood several
      minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and
      returned to it again before they quitted the gallery. Mrs.
      Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his father’s
      lifetime.

      There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth’s mind, a more
      gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt at
      the height of their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on
      him by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature. What praise is
      more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant? As a
      brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people’s
      happiness were in his guardianship!—how much of pleasure or pain
      was it in his power to bestow!—how much of good or evil must be
      done by him! Every idea that had been brought forward by the
      housekeeper was favourable to his character, and as she stood
      before the canvas on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes
      upon herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment
      of gratitude than it had ever raised before; she remembered its
      warmth, and softened its impropriety of expression.

      When all of the house that was open to general inspection had
      been seen, they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the
      housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met them at
      the hall-door.

      As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth
      turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and
      while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building,
      the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road,
      which led behind it to the stables.

      They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was
      his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight. Their
      eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of both were overspread with
      the deepest blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed
      immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced
      towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of
      perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.

      She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach,
      received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be
      overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the
      picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure
      the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener’s
      expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately
      have told it. They stood a little aloof while he was talking to
      their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift
      her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she returned to
      his civil enquiries after her family. Amazed at the alteration of
      his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he uttered
      was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the
      impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind, the
      few minutes in which they continued were some of the most
      uncomfortable in her life. Nor did he seem much more at ease;
      when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and
      he repeated his enquiries as to the time of her having left
      Longbourn, and of her stay in Derbyshire, so often, and in so
      hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts.

      At length every idea seemed to fail him; and, after standing a
      few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected
      himself, and took leave.

      The others then joined her, and expressed admiration of his
      figure; but Elizabeth heard not a word, and wholly engrossed by
      her own feelings, followed them in silence. She was overpowered
      by shame and vexation. Her coming there was the most unfortunate,
      the most ill-judged thing in the world! How strange it must
      appear to him! In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so
      vain a man! It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself
      in his way again! Oh! why did she come? Or, why did he thus come
      a day before he was expected? Had they been only ten minutes
      sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his
      discrimination; for it was plain that he was that moment
      arrived—that moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. She
      blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting. And
      his behaviour, so strikingly altered—what could it mean? That he
      should even speak to her was amazing!—but to speak with such
      civility, to enquire after her family! Never in her life had she
      seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with
      such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting. What a contrast
      did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his
      letter into her hand! She knew not what to think, or how to
      account for it.

      They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water,
      and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a
      finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it
      was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and,
      though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her
      uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as
      they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene. Her
      thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House,
      whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was. She longed to
      know what at the moment was passing in his mind—in what manner he
      thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything, she was
      still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt
      himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice which was
      not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in
      seeing her she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her
      with composure.

      At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence
      of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more
      like herself.

      They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a
      while, ascended some of the higher grounds; when, in spots where
      the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many
      charming views of the valley, the opposite hills, with the long
      range of woods overspreading many, and occasionally part of the
      stream. Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole
      park, but feared it might be beyond a walk. With a triumphant
      smile they were told that it was ten miles round. It settled the
      matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought
      them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to
      the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts. They
      crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air
      of the scene; it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet
      visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed
      room only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough
      coppice-wood which bordered it. Elizabeth longed to explore its
      windings; but when they had crossed the bridge, and perceived
      their distance from the house, Mrs. Gardiner, who was not a great
      walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the
      carriage as quickly as possible. Her niece was, therefore,
      obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house on
      the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but
      their progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to
      indulge the taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much
      engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in
      the water, and talking to the man about them, that he advanced
      but little. Whilst wandering on in this slow manner, they were
      again surprised, and Elizabeth’s astonishment was quite equal to
      what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching
      them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less
      sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before
      they met. Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more
      prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and
      to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a
      few moments, indeed, she felt that he would probably strike into
      some other path. The idea lasted while a turning in the walk
      concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was
      immediately before them. With a glance, she saw that he had lost
      none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his politeness, she
      began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place; but she
      had not got beyond the words “delightful,” and “charming,” when
      some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise
      of Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed. Her
      colour changed, and she said no more.

      Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing,
      he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to
      her friends. This was a stroke of civility for which she was
      quite unprepared; and she could hardly suppress a smile at his
      being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people
      against whom his pride had revolted in his offer to herself.
      “What will be his surprise,” thought she, “when he knows who they
      are? He takes them now for people of fashion.”

      The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named
      their relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to
      see how he bore it, and was not without the expectation of his
      decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions.
      That he was _surprised_ by the connection was evident; he
      sustained it, however, with fortitude, and so far from going
      away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with
      Mr. Gardiner. Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but
      triumph. It was consoling that he should know she had some
      relations for whom there was no need to blush. She listened most
      attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
      expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his
      intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.

      The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr.
      Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as
      often as he chose while he continued in the neighbourhood,
      offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle, and
      pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually
      most sport. Mrs. Gardiner, who was walking arm-in-arm with
      Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of wonder. Elizabeth said
      nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the compliment must be
      all for herself. Her astonishment, however, was extreme, and
      continually was she repeating, “Why is he so altered? From what
      can it proceed? It cannot be for _me_—it cannot be for _my_ sake
      that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could
      not work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should
      still love me.”

      After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the
      two gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending
      to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some
      curious water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It
      originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the
      morning, found Elizabeth’s arm inadequate to her support, and
      consequently preferred her husband’s. Mr. Darcy took her place by
      her niece, and they walked on together. After a short silence,
      the lady first spoke. She wished him to know that she had been
      assured of his absence before she came to the place, and
      accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been very
      unexpected—“for your housekeeper,” she added, “informed us that
      you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and indeed,
      before we left Bakewell, we understood that you were not
      immediately expected in the country.” He acknowledged the truth
      of it all, and said that business with his steward had occasioned
      his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with
      whom he had been travelling. “They will join me early to-morrow,”
      he continued, “and among them are some who will claim an
      acquaintance with you—Mr. Bingley and his sisters.”

      Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow. Her thoughts were
      instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley’s name had
      been the last mentioned between them; and, if she might judge by
      his complexion, _his_ mind was not very differently engaged.

      “There is also one other person in the party,” he continued after
      a pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will
      you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to
      your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?”

      The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too
      great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it. She
      immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of
      being acquainted with her must be the work of her brother, and,
      without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying
      to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of
      her.

      They now walked on in silence, each of them deep in thought.
      Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was
      flattered and pleased. His wish of introducing his sister to her
      was a compliment of the highest kind. They soon outstripped the
      others, and when they had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs.
      Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.

      He then asked her to walk into the house—but she declared herself
      not tired, and they stood together on the lawn. At such a time
      much might have been said, and silence was very awkward. She
      wanted to talk, but there seemed to be an embargo on every
      subject. At last she recollected that she had been travelling,
      and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale with great perseverance.
      Yet time and her aunt moved slowly—and her patience and her ideas
      were nearly worn out before the _tête-à-tête_ was over.

      On Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s coming up they were all pressed to go
      into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined,
      and they parted on each side with utmost politeness. Mr. Darcy
      handed the ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off,
      Elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house.

      The observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of
      them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they
      had expected. “He is perfectly well behaved, polite, and
      unassuming,” said her uncle.

      “There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure,”
      replied her aunt, “but it is confined to his air, and is not
      unbecoming. I can now say with the housekeeper, that though some
      people may call him proud, _I_ have seen nothing of it.”

      “I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was
      more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no
      necessity for such attention. His acquaintance with Elizabeth was
      very trifling.”

      “To be sure, Lizzy,” said her aunt, “he is not so handsome as
      Wickham; or, rather, he has not Wickham’s countenance, for his
      features are perfectly good. But how came you to tell me that he
      was so disagreeable?”

      Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had
      liked him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that
      she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.

      “But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities,”
      replied her uncle. “Your great men often are; and therefore I
      shall not take him at his word, as he might change his mind
      another day, and warn me off his grounds.”

      Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his
      character, but said nothing.

      “From what we have seen of him,” continued Mrs. Gardiner, “I
      really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so
      cruel a way by anybody as he has done by poor Wickham. He has not
      an ill-natured look. On the contrary, there is something pleasing
      about his mouth when he speaks. And there is something of dignity
      in his countenance that would not give one an unfavourable idea
      of his heart. But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us his
      house did give him a most flaming character! I could hardly help
      laughing aloud sometimes. But he is a liberal master, I suppose,
      and _that_ in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue.”

      Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in
      vindication of his behaviour to Wickham; and therefore gave them
      to understand, in as guarded a manner as she could, that by what
      she had heard from his relations in Kent, his actions were
      capable of a very different construction; and that his character
      was by no means so faulty, nor Wickham’s so amiable, as they had
      been considered in Hertfordshire. In confirmation of this, she
      related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in
      which they had been connected, without actually naming her
      authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.

      Mrs. Gardiner was surprised and concerned; but as they were now
      approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave
      way to the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in
      pointing out to her husband all the interesting spots in its
      environs to think of anything else. Fatigued as she had been by
      the morning’s walk they had no sooner dined than she set off
      again in quest of her former acquaintance, and the evening was
      spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many
      years’ discontinuance.

      The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave
      Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends; and she
      could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy’s
      civility, and, above all, of his wishing her to be acquainted
      with his sister.




Chapter 44

      Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to
      visit her the very day after her reaching Pemberley; and was
      consequently resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole
      of that morning. But her conclusion was false; for on the very
      morning after their arrival at Lambton, these visitors came. They
      had been walking about the place with some of their new friends,
      and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining
      with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a
      window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving
      up the street. Elizabeth immediately recognizing the livery,
      guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of her
      surprise to her relations by acquainting them with the honour
      which she expected. Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and
      the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke, joined to the
      circumstance itself, and many of the circumstances of the
      preceding day, opened to them a new idea on the business. Nothing
      had ever suggested it before, but they felt that there was no
      other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter
      than by supposing a partiality for their niece. While these
      newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation
      of Elizabeth’s feelings was at every moment increasing. She was
      quite amazed at her own discomposure; but amongst other causes of
      disquiet, she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should
      have said too much in her favour; and, more than commonly anxious
      to please, she naturally suspected that every power of pleasing
      would fail her.

      She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she
      walked up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw
      such looks of enquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt as made
      everything worse.

      Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable
      introduction took place. With astonishment did Elizabeth see that
      her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself.
      Since her being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was
      exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes
      convinced her that she was only exceedingly shy. She found it
      difficult to obtain even a word from her beyond a monosyllable.

      Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and,
      though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her
      appearance womanly and graceful. She was less handsome than her
      brother; but there was sense and good humour in her face, and her
      manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle. Elizabeth, who had
      expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as
      ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such
      different feelings.

      They had not long been together before Mr. Darcy told her that
      Bingley was also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time
      to express her satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when
      Bingley’s quick step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he
      entered the room. All Elizabeth’s anger against him had been long
      done away; but had she still felt any, it could hardly have stood
      its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he
      expressed himself on seeing her again. He enquired in a friendly,
      though general way, after her family, and looked and spoke with
      the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.

      To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting
      personage than to herself. They had long wished to see him. The
      whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention. The
      suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece
      directed their observation towards each with an earnest though
      guarded enquiry; and they soon drew from those enquiries the full
      conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love. Of
      the lady’s sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that
      the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.

      Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do. She wanted to ascertain
      the feelings of each of her visitors; she wanted to compose her
      own, and to make herself agreeable to all; and in the latter
      object, where she feared most to fail, she was most sure of
      success, for those to whom she endeavoured to give pleasure were
      prepossessed in her favour. Bingley was ready, Georgiana was
      eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased.

      In seeing Bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister;
      and, oh! how ardently did she long to know whether any of his
      were directed in a like manner. Sometimes she could fancy that he
      talked less than on former occasions, and once or twice pleased
      herself with the notion that, as he looked at her, he was trying
      to trace a resemblance. But, though this might be imaginary, she
      could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had
      been set up as a rival to Jane. No look appeared on either side
      that spoke particular regard. Nothing occurred between them that
      could justify the hopes of his sister. On this point she was soon
      satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere
      they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted a
      recollection of Jane not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of
      saying more that might lead to the mention of her, had he dared.
      He observed to her, at a moment when the others were talking
      together, and in a tone which had something of real regret, that
      it “was a very long time since he had had the pleasure of seeing
      her;” and, before she could reply, he added, “It is above eight
      months. We have not met since the 26th of November, when we were
      all dancing together at Netherfield.”

      Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he
      afterwards took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of
      the rest, whether _all_ her sisters were at Longbourn. There was
      not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there
      was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.

      It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. Darcy
      himself; but, whenever she did catch a glimpse, she saw an
      expression of general complaisance, and in all that he said she
      heard an accent so removed from _hauteur_ or disdain of his
      companions, as convinced her that the improvement of manners
      which she had yesterday witnessed however temporary its existence
      might prove, had at least outlived one day. When she saw him thus
      seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people
      with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a
      disgrace—when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to
      the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected
      their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage—the difference, the
      change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she
      could hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible. Never,
      even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his
      dignified relations at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to
      please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as
      now, when no importance could result from the success of his
      endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his
      attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and
      censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings.

      Their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour; and when they
      arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in
      expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss
      Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country.
      Miss Darcy, though with a diffidence which marked her little in
      the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed. Mrs. Gardiner
      looked at her niece, desirous of knowing how _she_, whom the
      invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance,
      but Elizabeth had turned away her head. Presuming however, that
      this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment
      than any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in her husband, who
      was fond of society, a perfect willingness to accept it, she
      ventured to engage for her attendance, and the day after the next
      was fixed on.

      Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing
      Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and
      many enquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
      Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak
      of her sister, was pleased, and on this account, as well as some
      others, found herself, when their visitors left them, capable of
      considering the last half-hour with some satisfaction, though
      while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been little. Eager
      to be alone, and fearful of enquiries or hints from her uncle and
      aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their
      favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.

      But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s curiosity;
      it was not their wish to force her communication. It was evident
      that she was much better acquainted with Mr. Darcy than they had
      before any idea of; it was evident that he was very much in love
      with her. They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify
      enquiry.

      Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and,
      as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
      They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn
      his character from their own feelings and his servant’s report,
      without any reference to any other account, the circle in
      Hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it
      for Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest, however, in believing
      the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible that the authority
      of a servant who had known him since he was four years old, and
      whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be hastily
      rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
      their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
      They had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably
      had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants
      of a small market-town where the family did not visit. It was
      acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much
      good among the poor.

      With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was
      not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his
      concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood,
      it was yet a well-known fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he
      had left many debts behind him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards
      discharged.

      As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening
      more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it
      seemed long, was not long enough to determine her feelings
      towards _one_ in that mansion; and she lay awake two whole hours
      endeavouring to make them out. She certainly did not hate him.
      No; hatred had vanished long ago, and she had almost as long been
      ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him, that could be so
      called. The respect created by the conviction of his valuable
      qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some
      time ceased to be repugnant to her feeling; and it was now
      heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature, by the testimony
      so highly in his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in
      so amiable a light, which yesterday had produced. But above all,
      above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of
      goodwill which could not be overlooked. It was gratitude;
      gratitude, not merely for having once loved her, but for loving
      her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony
      of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
      accompanying her rejection. He who, she had been persuaded, would
      avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental
      meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any
      indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where
      their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good
      opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his
      sister. Such a change in a man of so much pride exciting not only
      astonishment but gratitude—for to love, ardent love, it must be
      attributed; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be
      encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be
      exactly defined. She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to
      him, she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted
      to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself,
      and how far it would be for the happiness of both that she should
      employ the power, which her fancy told her she still possessed,
      of bringing on her the renewal of his addresses.

      It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the
      niece, that such a striking civility as Miss Darcy’s in coming to
      see them on the very day of her arrival at Pemberley, for she had
      reached it only to a late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though
      it could not be equalled, by some exertion of politeness on their
      side; and, consequently, that it would be highly expedient to
      wait on her at Pemberley the following morning. They were,
      therefore, to go. Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked
      herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.

      Mr. Gardiner left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme
      had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made
      of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley before noon.




Chapter 45

      Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley’s dislike of her
      had originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how
      unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was
      curious to know with how much civility on that lady’s side the
      acquaintance would now be renewed.

      On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the
      saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer.
      Its windows opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing
      view of the high woody hills behind the house, and of the
      beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts which were scattered over
      the intermediate lawn.

      In this house they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting
      there with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom
      she lived in London. Georgiana’s reception of them was very
      civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though
      proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily
      give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her
      being proud and reserved. Mrs. Gardiner and her niece, however,
      did her justice, and pitied her.

      By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a
      curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such
      pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments. It was first
      broken by Mrs. Annesley, a genteel, agreeable-looking woman,
      whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved her to
      be more truly well-bred than either of the others; and between
      her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from Elizabeth, the
      conversation was carried on. Miss Darcy looked as if she wished
      for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a
      short sentence when there was least danger of its being heard.

      Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss
      Bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss
      Darcy, without calling her attention. This observation would not
      have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter, had they
      not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but she was not
      sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much. Her own thoughts
      were employing her. She expected every moment that some of the
      gentlemen would enter the room. She wished, she feared that the
      master of the house might be amongst them; and whether she wished
      or feared it most, she could scarcely determine. After sitting in
      this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing Miss Bingley’s
      voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold enquiry
      after the health of her family. She answered with equal
      indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.

      The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
      entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all
      the finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till
      after many a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to
      Miss Darcy had been given, to remind her of her post. There was
      now employment for the whole party—for though they could not all
      talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes,
      nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.

      While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding
      whether she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr.
      Darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room;
      and then, though but a moment before she had believed her wishes
      to predominate, she began to regret that he came.

      He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three
      other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river, and had
      left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended
      a visit to Georgiana that morning. No sooner did he appear than
      Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed;
      a resolution the more necessary to be made, but perhaps not the
      more easily kept, because she saw that the suspicions of the
      whole party were awakened against them, and that there was
      scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first
      came into the room. In no countenance was attentive curiosity so
      strongly marked as in Miss Bingley’s, in spite of the smiles
      which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its
      objects; for jealousy had not yet made her desperate, and her
      attentions to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Miss Darcy, on her
      brother’s entrance, exerted herself much more to talk, and
      Elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to
      get acquainted, and forwarded as much as possible, every attempt
      at conversation on either side. Miss Bingley saw all this
      likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first
      opportunity of saying, with sneering civility:

      “Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ——shire Militia removed from
      Meryton? They must be a great loss to _your_ family.”

      In Darcy’s presence she dared not mention Wickham’s name; but
      Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her
      thoughts; and the various recollections connected with him gave
      her a moment’s distress; but exerting herself vigorously to repel
      the ill-natured attack, she presently answered the question in a
      tolerably detached tone. While she spoke, an involuntary glance
      showed her Darcy, with a heightened complexion, earnestly looking
      at her, and his sister overcome with confusion, and unable to
      lift up her eyes. Had Miss Bingley known what pain she was then
      giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have refrained
      from the hint; but she had merely intended to discompose
      Elizabeth by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she
      believed her partial, to make her betray a sensibility which
      might injure her in Darcy’s opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the
      latter of all the follies and absurdities by which some part of
      her family were connected with that corps. Not a syllable had
      ever reached her of Miss Darcy’s meditated elopement. To no
      creature had it been revealed, where secrecy was possible, except
      to Elizabeth; and from all Bingley’s connections her brother was
      particularly anxious to conceal it, from the very wish which
      Elizabeth had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming
      hereafter her own. He had certainly formed such a plan, and
      without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate
      him from Miss Bennet, it is probable that it might add something
      to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend.

      Elizabeth’s collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his
      emotion; and as Miss Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not
      approach nearer to Wickham, Georgiana also recovered in time,
      though not enough to be able to speak any more. Her brother,
      whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely recollected her interest
      in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed
      to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on
      her more and more cheerfully.

      Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer
      above mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their
      carriage Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on
      Elizabeth’s person, behaviour, and dress. But Georgiana would not
      join her. Her brother’s recommendation was enough to ensure her
      favour; his judgement could not err. And he had spoken in such
      terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana without the power of
      finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable. When Darcy
      returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help repeating to
      him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.

      “How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy,”
      she cried; “I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she
      is since the winter. She is grown so brown and coarse! Louisa and
      I were agreeing that we should not have known her again.”

      However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he
      contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other
      alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous
      consequence of travelling in the summer.

      “For my own part,” she rejoined, “I must confess that I never
      could see any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion
      has no brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her
      nose wants character—there is nothing marked in its lines. Her
      teeth are tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for
      her eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, I could never
      see anything extraordinary in them. They have a sharp, shrewish
      look, which I do not like at all; and in her air altogether there
      is a self-sufficiency without fashion, which is intolerable.”

      Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth, this
      was not the best method of recommending herself; but angry people
      are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat
      nettled, she had all the success she expected. He was resolutely
      silent, however, and, from a determination of making him speak,
      she continued:

      “I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, how amazed
      we all were to find that she was a reputed beauty; and I
      particularly recollect your saying one night, after they had been
      dining at Netherfield, ‘_She_ a beauty!—I should as soon call her
      mother a wit.’ But afterwards she seemed to improve on you, and I
      believe you thought her rather pretty at one time.”

      “Yes,” replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, “but
      _that_ was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since
      I have considered her as one of the handsomest women of my
      acquaintance.”

      He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the
      satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any
      pain but herself.

      Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred
      during their visit, as they returned, except what had
      particularly interested them both. The look and behaviour of
      everybody they had seen were discussed, except of the person who
      had mostly engaged their attention. They talked of his sister,
      his friends, his house, his fruit—of everything but himself; yet
      Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of him,
      and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece’s
      beginning the subject.




Chapter 46

      Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a
      letter from Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this
      disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had
      now been spent there; but on the third her repining was over, and
      her sister justified, by the receipt of two letters from her at
      once, on one of which was marked that it had been missent
      elsewhere. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written
      the direction remarkably ill.

      They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and
      her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off
      by themselves. The one missent must first be attended to; it had
      been written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of
      all their little parties and engagements, with such news as the
      country afforded; but the latter half, which was dated a day
      later, and written in evident agitation, gave more important
      intelligence. It was to this effect:

      “Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred
      of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of
      alarming you—be assured that we are all well. What I have to say
      relates to poor Lydia. An express came at twelve last night, just
      as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us
      that she was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to
      own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine our surprise. To Kitty,
      however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected. I am very, very
      sorry. So imprudent a match on both sides! But I am willing to
      hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
      Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this
      step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. His
      choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can
      give her nothing. Our poor mother is sadly grieved. My father
      bears it better. How thankful am I that we never let them know
      what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves. They
      were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were
      not missed till yesterday morning at eight. The express was sent
      off directly. My dear Lizzy, they must have passed within ten
      miles of us. Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect him here
      soon. Lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of their
      intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor
      mother. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I
      hardly know what I have written.”

      Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely
      knowing what she felt, Elizabeth on finishing this letter
      instantly seized the other, and opening it with the utmost
      impatience, read as follows: it had been written a day later than
      the conclusion of the first.

      “By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried
      letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not
      confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer
      for being coherent. Dearest Lizzy, I hardly know what I would
      write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
      Imprudent as the marriage between Mr. Wickham and our poor Lydia
      would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place,
      for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to
      Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton
      the day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lydia’s
      short letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that they were
      going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing
      his belief that W. never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia
      at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking
      the alarm, set off from B. intending to trace their route. He did
      trace them easily to Clapham, but no further; for on entering
      that place, they removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the
      chaise that brought them from Epsom. All that is known after this
      is, that they were seen to continue the London road. I know not
      what to think. After making every possible enquiry on that side
      London, Colonel F. came on into Hertfordshire, anxiously renewing
      them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet and
      Hatfield, but without any success—no such people had been seen to
      pass through. With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn,
      and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to
      his heart. I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F., but no one
      can throw any blame on them. Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very
      great. My father and mother believe the worst, but I cannot think
      so ill of him. Many circumstances might make it more eligible for
      them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first
      plan; and even if _he_ could form such a design against a young
      woman of Lydia’s connections, which is not likely, can I suppose
      her so lost to everything? Impossible! I grieve to find, however,
      that Colonel F. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage; he
      shook his head when I expressed my hopes, and said he feared W.
      was not a man to be trusted. My poor mother is really ill, and
      keeps her room. Could she exert herself, it would be better; but
      this is not to be expected. And as to my father, I never in my
      life saw him so affected. Poor Kitty has anger for having
      concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence,
      one cannot wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have
      been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as
      the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return?
      I am not so selfish, however, as to press for it, if
      inconvenient. Adieu! I take up my pen again to do what I have
      just told you I would not; but circumstances are such that I
      cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as soon as
      possible. I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not
      afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to
      ask of the former. My father is going to London with Colonel
      Forster instantly, to try to discover her. What he means to do I
      am sure I know not; but his excessive distress will not allow him
      to pursue any measure in the best and safest way, and Colonel
      Forster is obliged to be at Brighton again to-morrow evening. In
      such an exigence, my uncle’s advice and assistance would be
      everything in the world; he will immediately comprehend what I
      must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.”

      “Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elizabeth, darting from her
      seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him,
      without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she
      reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy
      appeared. Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and
      before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind
      every idea was superseded by Lydia’s situation, hastily
      exclaimed, “I beg your pardon, but I must leave you. I must find
      Mr. Gardiner this moment, on business that cannot be delayed; I
      have not an instant to lose.”

      “Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than
      politeness; then recollecting himself, “I will not detain you a
      minute; but let me, or let the servant go after Mr. and Mrs.
      Gardiner. You are not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”

      Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she
      felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
      Calling back the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though
      in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible, to
      fetch his master and mistress home instantly.

      On his quitting the room she sat down, unable to support herself,
      and looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to
      leave her, or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and
      commiseration, “Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could
      take to give you present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you
      one? You are very ill.”

      “No, I thank you,” she replied, endeavouring to recover herself.
      “There is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well; I am only
      distressed by some dreadful news which I have just received from
      Longbourn.”

      She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes
      could not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could
      only say something indistinctly of his concern, and observe her
      in compassionate silence. At length she spoke again. “I have just
      had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news. It cannot be
      concealed from anyone. My younger sister has left all her
      friends—has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of—of Mr.
      Wickham. They are gone off together from Brighton. _You_ know him
      too well to doubt the rest. She has no money, no connections,
      nothing that can tempt him to—she is lost for ever.”

      Darcy was fixed in astonishment. “When I consider,” she added in
      a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_ might have prevented it! _I_
      who knew what he was. Had I but explained some part of it
      only—some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had his
      character been known, this could not have happened. But it is
      all—all too late now.”

      “I am grieved indeed,” cried Darcy; “grieved—shocked. But is it
      certain—absolutely certain?”

      “Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were
      traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not
      gone to Scotland.”

      “And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover
      her?”

      “My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my
      uncle’s immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in
      half-an-hour. But nothing can be done—I know very well that
      nothing can be done. How is such a man to be worked on? How are
      they even to be discovered? I have not the smallest hope. It is
      every way horrible!”

      Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.

      “When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character—Oh! had I known
      what I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not—I was afraid of
      doing too much. Wretched, wretched mistake!”

      Darcy made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was
      walking up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow
      contracted, his air gloomy. Elizabeth soon observed, and
      instantly understood it. Her power was sinking; everything _must_
      sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of
      the deepest disgrace. She could neither wonder nor condemn, but
      the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to
      her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It was, on the
      contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
      wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have
      loved him, as now, when all love must be vain.

      But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
      Lydia—the humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all,
      soon swallowed up every private care; and covering her face with
      her handkerchief, Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else;
      and, after a pause of several minutes, was only recalled to a
      sense of her situation by the voice of her companion, who, in a
      manner which, though it spoke compassion, spoke likewise
      restraint, said, “I am afraid you have been long desiring my
      absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but
      real, though unavailing concern. Would to Heaven that anything
      could be either said or done on my part that might offer
      consolation to such distress! But I will not torment you with
      vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
      This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent my sister’s having
      the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.”

      “Oh, yes. Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy. Say
      that urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the
      unhappy truth as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be
      long.”

      He readily assured her of his secrecy; again expressed his sorrow
      for her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was
      at present reason to hope, and leaving his compliments for her
      relations, with only one serious, parting look, went away.

      As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that
      they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality
      as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she
      threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their
      acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at
      the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted
      its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its
      termination.

      If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection,
      Elizabeth’s change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor
      faulty. But if otherwise—if regard springing from such sources is
      unreasonable or unnatural, in comparison of what is so often
      described as arising on a first interview with its object, and
      even before two words have been exchanged, nothing can be said in
      her defence, except that she had given somewhat of a trial to the
      latter method in her partiality for Wickham, and that its ill
      success might, perhaps, authorise her to seek the other less
      interesting mode of attachment. Be that as it may, she saw him go
      with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia’s infamy
      must produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that
      wretched business. Never, since reading Jane’s second letter, had
      she entertained a hope of Wickham’s meaning to marry her. No one
      but Jane, she thought, could flatter herself with such an
      expectation. Surprise was the least of her feelings on this
      development. While the contents of the first letter remained in
      her mind, she was all surprise—all astonishment that Wickham
      should marry a girl whom it was impossible he could marry for
      money; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared
      incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an
      attachment as this she might have sufficient charms; and though
      she did not suppose Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an
      elopement without the intention of marriage, she had no
      difficulty in believing that neither her virtue nor her
      understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey.

      She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire,
      that Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that
      Lydia wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody.
      Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite,
      as their attentions raised them in her opinion. Her affections
      had continually been fluctuating but never without an object. The
      mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a
      girl—oh! how acutely did she now feel it!

      She was wild to be at home—to hear, to see, to be upon the spot
      to share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon
      her, in a family so deranged, a father absent, a mother incapable
      of exertion, and requiring constant attendance; and though almost
      persuaded that nothing could be done for Lydia, her uncle’s
      interference seemed of the utmost importance, and till he entered
      the room her impatience was severe. Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner had
      hurried back in alarm, supposing by the servant’s account that
      their niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them instantly
      on that head, she eagerly communicated the cause of their
      summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the
      postscript of the last with trembling energy.— Though Lydia had
      never been a favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not
      but be deeply afflicted. Not Lydia only, but all were concerned
      in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror,
      Mr. Gardiner promised every assistance in his power. Elizabeth,
      though expecting no less, thanked him with tears of gratitude;
      and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating
      to their journey was speedily settled. They were to be off as
      soon as possible. “But what is to be done about Pemberley?” cried
      Mrs. Gardiner. “John told us Mr. Darcy was here when you sent for
      us; was it so?”

      “Yes; and I told him we should not be able to keep our
      engagement. _That_ is all settled.”

      “That is all settled;” repeated the other, as she ran into her
      room to prepare. “And are they upon such terms as for her to
      disclose the real truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!”

      But wishes were vain, or at least could only serve to amuse her
      in the hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had Elizabeth
      been at leisure to be idle, she would have remained certain that
      all employment was impossible to one so wretched as herself; but
      she had her share of business as well as her aunt, and amongst
      the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends at
      Lambton, with false excuses for their sudden departure. An hour,
      however, saw the whole completed; and Mr. Gardiner meanwhile
      having settled his account at the inn, nothing remained to be
      done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of the
      morning, found herself, in a shorter space of time than she could
      have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to
      Longbourn.




Chapter 47

      “I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,” said her uncle,
      as they drove from the town; “and really, upon serious
      consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as
      your eldest sister does on the matter. It appears to me so very
      unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a
      girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was
      actually staying in his colonel’s family, that I am strongly
      inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that her friends would
      not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed again by the
      regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? His
      temptation is not adequate to the risk!”

      “Do you really think so?” cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a
      moment.

      “Upon my word,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your
      uncle’s opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency,
      honour, and interest, for him to be guilty of. I cannot think so
      very ill of Wickham. Can you yourself, Lizzy, so wholly give him
      up, as to believe him capable of it?”

      “Not, perhaps, of neglecting his own interest; but of every other
      neglect I can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so!
      But I dare not hope it. Why should they not go on to Scotland if
      that had been the case?”

      “In the first place,” replied Mr. Gardiner, “there is no absolute
      proof that they are not gone to Scotland.”

      “Oh! but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is
      such a presumption! And, besides, no traces of them were to be
      found on the Barnet road.”

      “Well, then—supposing them to be in London. They may be there,
      though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptional
      purpose. It is not likely that money should be very abundant on
      either side; and it might strike them that they could be more
      economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than
      in Scotland.”

      “But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must
      their marriage be private? Oh, no, no—this is not likely. His
      most particular friend, you see by Jane’s account, was persuaded
      of his never intending to marry her. Wickham will never marry a
      woman without some money. He cannot afford it. And what claims
      has Lydia—what attraction has she beyond youth, health, and good
      humour that could make him, for her sake, forego every chance of
      benefiting himself by marrying well? As to what restraint the
      apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a
      dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I
      know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce. But
      as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
      Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from
      my father’s behaviour, from his indolence and the little
      attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in
      his family, that _he_ would do as little, and think as little
      about it, as any father could do, in such a matter.”

      “But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love
      of him as to consent to live with him on any terms other than
      marriage?”

      “It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed,” replied
      Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes, “that a sister’s sense of
      decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt. But,
      really, I know not what to say. Perhaps I am not doing her
      justice. But she is very young; she has never been taught to
      think on serious subjects; and for the last half-year, nay, for a
      twelvemonth—she has been given up to nothing but amusement and
      vanity. She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most
      idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in
      her way. Since the ——shire were first quartered in Meryton,
      nothing but love, flirtation, and officers have been in her head.
      She has been doing everything in her power by thinking and
      talking on the subject, to give greater—what shall I call it?
      susceptibility to her feelings; which are naturally lively
      enough. And we all know that Wickham has every charm of person
      and address that can captivate a woman.”

      “But you see that Jane,” said her aunt, “does not think so very
      ill of Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt.”

      “Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever
      might be their former conduct, that she would think capable of
      such an attempt, till it were proved against them? But Jane
      knows, as well as I do, what Wickham really is. We both know that
      he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has
      neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful
      as he is insinuating.”

      “And do you really know all this?” cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose
      curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.

      “I do indeed,” replied Elizabeth, colouring. “I told you, the
      other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you
      yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke
      of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality
      towards him. And there are other circumstances which I am not at
      liberty—which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about
      the whole Pemberley family are endless. From what he said of Miss
      Darcy I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud, reserved,
      disagreeable girl. Yet he knew to the contrary himself. He must
      know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found
      her.”

      “But does Lydia know nothing of this? can she be ignorant of what
      you and Jane seem so well to understand?”

      “Oh, yes!—that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and
      saw so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel
      Fitzwilliam, I was ignorant of the truth myself. And when I
      returned home, the ——shire was to leave Meryton in a week or
      fortnight’s time. As that was the case, neither Jane, to whom I
      related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our
      knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any
      one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him
      should then be overthrown? And even when it was settled that
      Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening her
      eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _she_ could be
      in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such
      a consequence as _this_ could ensue, you may easily believe, was
      far enough from my thoughts.”

      “When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason,
      I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?”

      “Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on
      either side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you
      must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be
      thrown away. When first he entered the corps, she was ready
      enough to admire him; but so we all were. Every girl in or near
      Meryton was out of her senses about him for the first two months;
      but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular attention;
      and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
      wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the
      regiment, who treated her with more distinction, again became her
      favourites.”

      It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could
      be added to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this
      interesting subject, by its repeated discussion, no other could
      detain them from it long, during the whole of the journey. From
      Elizabeth’s thoughts it was never absent. Fixed there by the
      keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could find no interval
      of ease or forgetfulness.

      They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one
      night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day.
      It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not
      have been wearied by long expectations.

      The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were
      standing on the steps of the house as they entered the paddock;
      and, when the carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise
      that lighted up their faces, and displayed itself over their
      whole bodies, in a variety of capers and frisks, was the first
      pleasing earnest of their welcome.

      Elizabeth jumped out; and, after giving each of them a hasty
      kiss, hurried into the vestibule, where Jane, who came running
      down from her mother’s apartment, immediately met her.

      Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears
      filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether
      anything had been heard of the fugitives.

      “Not yet,” replied Jane. “But now that my dear uncle is come, I
      hope everything will be well.”

      “Is my father in town?”

      “Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.”

      “And have you heard from him often?”

      “We have heard only twice. He wrote me a few lines on Wednesday
      to say that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his
      directions, which I particularly begged him to do. He merely
      added that he should not write again till he had something of
      importance to mention.”

      “And my mother—how is she? How are you all?”

      “My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are
      greatly shaken. She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction
      in seeing you all. She does not yet leave her dressing-room. Mary
      and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well.”

      “But you—how are you?” cried Elizabeth. “You look pale. How much
      you must have gone through!”

      Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and
      their conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs.
      Gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to
      by the approach of the whole party. Jane ran to her uncle and
      aunt, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles
      and tears.

      When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which
      Elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the
      others, and they soon found that Jane had no intelligence to
      give. The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence
      of her heart suggested had not yet deserted her; she still
      expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would
      bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father, to explain
      their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce their marriage.

      Mrs. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few
      minutes’ conversation together, received them exactly as might be
      expected; with tears and lamentations of regret, invectives
      against the villainous conduct of Wickham, and complaints of her
      own sufferings and ill-usage; blaming everybody but the person to
      whose ill-judging indulgence the errors of her daughter must
      principally be owing.

      “If I had been able,” said she, “to carry my point in going to
      Brighton, with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but
      poor dear Lydia had nobody to take care of her. Why did the
      Forsters ever let her go out of their sight? I am sure there was
      some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the
      kind of girl to do such a thing if she had been well looked
      after. I always thought they were very unfit to have the charge
      of her; but I was overruled, as I always am. Poor dear child! And
      now here’s Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight
      Wickham, wherever he meets him and then he will be killed, and
      what is to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us out
      before he is cold in his grave, and if you are not kind to us,
      brother, I do not know what we shall do.”

      They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner,
      after general assurances of his affection for her and all her
      family, told her that he meant to be in London the very next day,
      and would assist Mr. Bennet in every endeavour for recovering
      Lydia.

      “Do not give way to useless alarm,” added he; “though it is right
      to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it
      as certain. It is not quite a week since they left Brighton. In a
      few days more we may gain some news of them; and till we know
      that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not
      let us give the matter over as lost. As soon as I get to town I
      shall go to my brother, and make him come home with me to
      Gracechurch Street; and then we may consult together as to what
      is to be done.”

      “Oh! my dear brother,” replied Mrs. Bennet, “that is exactly what
      I could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find
      them out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married
      already, _make_ them marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not
      let them wait for that, but tell Lydia she shall have as much
      money as she chooses to buy them, after they are married. And,
      above all, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting. Tell him what a
      dreadful state I am in, that I am frighted out of my wits—and
      have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over me—such spasms
      in my side and pains in my head, and such beatings at heart, that
      I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear Lydia not
      to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me,
      for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother,
      how kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.”

      But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured her again of his earnest
      endeavours in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation
      to her, as well in her hopes as her fear; and after talking with
      her in this manner till dinner was on the table, they all left
      her to vent all her feelings on the housekeeper, who attended in
      the absence of her daughters.

      Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no
      real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not
      attempt to oppose it, for they knew that she had not prudence
      enough to hold her tongue before the servants, while they waited
      at table, and judged it better that _one_ only of the household,
      and the one whom they could most trust should comprehend all her
      fears and solicitude on the subject.

      In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who
      had been too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make
      their appearance before. One came from her books, and the other
      from her toilette. The faces of both, however, were tolerably
      calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss
      of her favourite sister, or the anger which she had herself
      incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than
      usual to the accents of Kitty. As for Mary, she was mistress
      enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance of
      grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table:

      “This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much
      talked of. But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the
      wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.”

      Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she
      added, “Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from
      it this useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is
      irretrievable; that one false step involves her in endless ruin;
      that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful; and
      that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the
      undeserving of the other sex.”

      Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much
      oppressed to make any reply. Mary, however, continued to console
      herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before
      them.

      In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for
      half-an-hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed
      herself of the opportunity of making many enquiries, which Jane
      was equally eager to satisfy. After joining in general
      lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event, which
      Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Miss Bennet could
      not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued the
      subject, by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it
      which I have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What
      did Colonel Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything
      before the elopement took place? They must have seen them
      together for ever.”

      “Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some
      partiality, especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him
      any alarm. I am so grieved for him! His behaviour was attentive
      and kind to the utmost. He _was_ coming to us, in order to assure
      us of his concern, before he had any idea of their not being gone
      to Scotland: when that apprehension first got abroad, it hastened
      his journey.”

      “And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he
      know of their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny
      himself?”

      “Yes; but, when questioned by _him_, Denny denied knowing
      anything of their plans, and would not give his real opinion
      about it. He did not repeat his persuasion of their not
      marrying—and from _that_, I am inclined to hope, he might have
      been misunderstood before.”

      “And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you
      entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”

      “How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I
      felt a little uneasy—a little fearful of my sister’s happiness
      with him in marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not
      been always quite right. My father and mother knew nothing of
      that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then
      owned, with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest
      of us, that in Lydia’s last letter she had prepared her for such
      a step. She had known, it seems, of their being in love with each
      other, many weeks.”

      “But not before they went to Brighton?”

      “No, I believe not.”

      “And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
      Does he know his real character?”

      “I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he
      formerly did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant.
      And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he
      left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false.”

      “Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of
      him, this could not have happened!”

      “Perhaps it would have been better,” replied her sister. “But to
      expose the former faults of any person without knowing what their
      present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable. We acted with the
      best intentions.”

      “Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydia’s note to
      his wife?”

      “He brought it with him for us to see.”

      Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth.
      These were the contents:

      “My dear Harriet,
      “You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help
      laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I
      am missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess
      with who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man
      in the world I love, and he is an angel. I should never be happy
      without him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send
      them word at Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it
      will make the surprise the greater, when I write to them and sign
      my name ‘Lydia Wickham.’ What a good joke it will be! I can
      hardly write for laughing. Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not
      keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night. Tell him I
      hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will
      dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure. I
      shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you
      would tell Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown
      before they are packed up. Good-bye. Give my love to Colonel
      Forster. I hope you will drink to our good journey.

      “Your affectionate friend,
      “LYDIA BENNET.”

      “Oh! thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!” cried Elizabeth when she
      had finished it. “What a letter is this, to be written at such a
      moment! But at least it shows that _she_ was serious on the
      subject of their journey. Whatever he might afterwards persuade
      her to, it was not on her side a _scheme_ of infamy. My poor
      father! how he must have felt it!”

      “I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for
      full ten minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the
      whole house in such confusion!”

      “Oh! Jane,” cried Elizabeth, “was there a servant belonging to it
      who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?”

      “I do not know. I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a
      time is very difficult. My mother was in hysterics, and though I
      endeavoured to give her every assistance in my power, I am afraid
      I did not do so much as I might have done! But the horror of what
      might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.”

      “Your attendance upon her has been too much for you. You do not
      look well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care
      and anxiety upon yourself alone.”

      “Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in
      every fatigue, I am sure; but I did not think it right for either
      of them. Kitty is slight and delicate; and Mary studies so much,
      that her hours of repose should not be broken in on. My aunt
      Phillips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away;
      and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me. She was of
      great use and comfort to us all. And Lady Lucas has been very
      kind; she walked here on Wednesday morning to condole with us,
      and offered her services, or any of her daughters’, if they
      should be of use to us.”

      “She had better have stayed at home,” cried Elizabeth; “perhaps
      she _meant_ well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one
      cannot see too little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is
      impossible; condolence insufferable. Let them triumph over us at
      a distance, and be satisfied.”

      She then proceeded to enquire into the measures which her father
      had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his
      daughter.

      “He meant I believe,” replied Jane, “to go to Epsom, the place
      where they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if
      anything could be made out from them. His principal object must
      be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them
      from Clapham. It had come with a fare from London; and as he
      thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and lady’s removing
      from one carriage into another might be remarked he meant to make
      enquiries at Clapham. If he could anyhow discover at what house
      the coachman had before set down his fare, he determined to make
      enquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible to find out
      the stand and number of the coach. I do not know of any other
      designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be
      gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had
      difficulty in finding out even so much as this.”




Chapter 48

      The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the
      next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line
      from him. His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a
      most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time
      they had hoped for exertion. They were forced to conclude that he
      had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of _that_ they
      would have been glad to be certain. Mr. Gardiner had waited only
      for the letters before he set off.

      When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving
      constant information of what was going on, and their uncle
      promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to
      Longbourn, as soon as he could, to the great consolation of his
      sister, who considered it as the only security for her husband’s
      not being killed in a duel.

      Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a
      few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be
      serviceable to her nieces. She shared in their attendance on Mrs.
      Bennet, and was a great comfort to them in their hours of
      freedom. Their other aunt also visited them frequently, and
      always, as she said, with the design of cheering and heartening
      them up—though, as she never came without reporting some fresh
      instance of Wickham’s extravagance or irregularity, she seldom
      went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found
      them.

      All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three
      months before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared
      to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues,
      all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into
      every tradesman’s family. Everybody declared that he was the
      wickedest young man in the world; and everybody began to find out
      that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness.
      Elizabeth, though she did not credit above half of what was said,
      believed enough to make her former assurance of her sister’s ruin
      more certain; and even Jane, who believed still less of it,
      became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now come
      when, if they had gone to Scotland, which she had never before
      entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained
      some news of them.

      Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday his wife
      received a letter from him; it told them that, on his arrival, he
      had immediately found out his brother, and persuaded him to come
      to Gracechurch Street; that Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and
      Clapham, before his arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory
      information; and that he was now determined to enquire at all the
      principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible they
      might have gone to one of them, on their first coming to London,
      before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner himself did not
      expect any success from this measure, but as his brother was
      eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it. He added that
      Mr. Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London
      and promised to write again very soon. There was also a
      postscript to this effect:

      “I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if
      possible, from some of the young man’s intimates in the regiment,
      whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be
      likely to know in what part of town he has now concealed himself.
      If there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability
      of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential
      consequence. At present we have nothing to guide us. Colonel
      Forster will, I dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy
      us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps, Lizzy could
      tell us what relations he has now living, better than any other
      person.”

      Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference
      to her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give
      any information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment
      deserved. She had never heard of his having had any relations,
      except a father and mother, both of whom had been dead many
      years. It was possible, however, that some of his companions in
      the ——shire might be able to give more information; and though
      she was not very sanguine in expecting it, the application was a
      something to look forward to.

      Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most
      anxious part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival
      of letters was the grand object of every morning’s impatience.
      Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be
      communicated, and every succeeding day was expected to bring some
      news of importance.

      But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived
      for their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins;
      which, as Jane had received directions to open all that came for
      him in his absence, she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew
      what curiosities his letters always were, looked over her, and
      read it likewise. It was as follows:

      “My dear Sir,
      “I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
      in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are
      now suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a
      letter from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs.
      Collins and myself sincerely sympathise with you and all your
      respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of
      the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time
      can remove. No arguments shall be wanting on my part that can
      alleviate so severe a misfortune—or that may comfort you, under a
      circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a
      parent’s mind. The death of your daughter would have been a
      blessing in comparison of this. And it is the more to be
      lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte
      informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your
      daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence;
      though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and
      Mrs. Bennet, I am inclined to think that her own disposition must
      be naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity,
      at so early an age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to
      be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins,
      but likewise by Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have
      related the affair. They agree with me in apprehending that this
      false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of
      all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself
      condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family?
      And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with
      augmented satisfaction, on a certain event of last November; for
      had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your
      sorrow and disgrace. Let me then advise you, dear sir, to console
      yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child
      from your affection for ever, and leave her to reap the fruits of
      her own heinous offense.

      “I am, dear sir, etc., etc.”

      Mr. Gardiner did not write again till he had received an answer
      from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant
      nature to send. It was not known that Wickham had a single
      relationship with whom he kept up any connection, and it was
      certain that he had no near one living. His former acquaintances
      had been numerous; but since he had been in the militia, it did
      not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any
      of them. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as
      likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state of his
      own finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in
      addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia’s relations, for it
      had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a
      very considerable amount. Colonel Forster believed that more than
      a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at
      Brighton. He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour
      were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to
      conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family. Jane heard
      them with horror. “A gamester!” she cried. “This is wholly
      unexpected. I had not an idea of it.”

      Mr. Gardiner added in his letter, that they might expect to see
      their father at home on the following day, which was Saturday.
      Rendered spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours,
      he had yielded to his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would
      return to his family, and leave it to him to do whatever occasion
      might suggest to be advisable for continuing their pursuit. When
      Mrs. Bennet was told of this, she did not express so much
      satisfaction as her children expected, considering what her
      anxiety for his life had been before.

      “What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?” she cried.
      “Sure he will not leave London before he has found them. Who is
      to fight Wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?”

      As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that
      she and the children should go to London, at the same time that
      Mr. Bennet came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the
      first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to
      Longbourn.

      Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and
      her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the
      world. His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them
      by her niece; and the kind of half-expectation which Mrs.
      Gardiner had formed, of their being followed by a letter from
      him, had ended in nothing. Elizabeth had received none since her
      return that could come from Pemberley.

      The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse
      for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore,
      could be fairly conjectured from _that_, though Elizabeth, who
      was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings,
      was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she
      could have borne the dread of Lydia’s infamy somewhat better. It
      would have spared her, she thought, one sleepless night out of
      two.

      When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
      philosophic composure. He said as little as he had ever been in
      the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had
      taken him away, and it was some time before his daughters had
      courage to speak of it.

      It was not till the afternoon, when he had joined them at tea,
      that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on
      her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured,
      he replied, “Say nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself?
      It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel it.”

      “You must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied Elizabeth.

      “You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so
      prone to fall into it! No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how
      much I have been to blame. I am not afraid of being overpowered
      by the impression. It will pass away soon enough.”

      “Do you suppose them to be in London?”

      “Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?”

      “And Lydia used to want to go to London,” added Kitty.

      “She is happy then,” said her father drily; “and her residence
      there will probably be of some duration.”

      Then after a short silence he continued:

      “Lizzy, I bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice
      to me last May, which, considering the event, shows some
      greatness of mind.”

      They were interrupted by Miss Bennet, who came to fetch her
      mother’s tea.

      “This is a parade,” he cried, “which does one good; it gives such
      an elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will
      sit in my library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as
      much trouble as I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty
      runs away.”

      “I am not going to run away, papa,” said Kitty fretfully. “If _I_
      should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.”

      “_You_ go to Brighton. I would not trust you so near it as
      Eastbourne for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to
      be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it. No officer is
      ever to enter into my house again, nor even to pass through the
      village. Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up
      with one of your sisters. And you are never to stir out of doors
      till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day
      in a rational manner.”

      Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to
      cry.

      “Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are
      a good girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review
      at the end of them.”




Chapter 49

      Two days after Mr. Bennet’s return, as Jane and Elizabeth were
      walking together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the
      housekeeper coming towards them, and, concluding that she came to
      call them to their mother, went forward to meet her; but, instead
      of the expected summons, when they approached her, she said to
      Miss Bennet, “I beg your pardon, madam, for interrupting you, but
      I was in hopes you might have got some good news from town, so I
      took the liberty of coming to ask.”

      “What do you mean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.”

      “Dear madam,” cried Mrs. Hill, in great astonishment, “don’t you
      know there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He
      has been here this half-hour, and master has had a letter.”

      Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech.
      They ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from
      thence to the library; their father was in neither; and they were
      on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother, when
      they were met by the butler, who said:

      “If you are looking for my master, ma’am, he is walking towards
      the little copse.”

      Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall
      once more, and ran across the lawn after their father, who was
      deliberately pursuing his way towards a small wood on one side of
      the paddock.

      Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as
      Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for
      breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out:

      “Oh, papa, what news—what news? Have you heard from my uncle?”

      “Yes I have had a letter from him by express.”

      “Well, and what news does it bring—good or bad?”

      “What is there of good to be expected?” said he, taking the
      letter from his pocket. “But perhaps you would like to read it.”

      Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand. Jane now came up.

      “Read it aloud,” said their father, “for I hardly know myself
      what it is about.”

      “Gracechurch Street, _Monday, August_ 2.

      “My dear Brother,
      “At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such
      as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction. Soon
      after you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out
      in what part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till
      we meet; it is enough to know they are discovered. I have seen
      them both—”
          “Then it is as I always hoped,” cried Jane; “they are
          married!”

      Elizabeth read on:

      “I have seen them both. They are not married, nor can I find
      there was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to
      perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on your
      side, I hope it will not be long before they are. All that is
      required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement,
      her equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your
      children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and,
      moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during
      your life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions
      which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying
      with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall
      send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me
      your answer. You will easily comprehend, from these particulars,
      that Mr. Wickham’s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are
      generally believed to be. The world has been deceived in that
      respect; and I am happy to say there will be some little money,
      even when all his debts are discharged, to settle on my niece, in
      addition to her own fortune. If, as I conclude will be the case,
      you send me full powers to act in your name throughout the whole
      of this business, I will immediately give directions to
      Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement. There will not be
      the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore
      stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
      Send back your answer as fast as you can, and be careful to write
      explicitly. We have judged it best that my niece should be
      married from this house, of which I hope you will approve. She
      comes to us to-day. I shall write again as soon as anything more
      is determined on. Yours, etc.,

      “EDW. GARDINER.”

      “Is it possible?” cried Elizabeth, when she had finished. “Can it
      be possible that he will marry her?”

      “Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him,” said
      her sister. “My dear father, I congratulate you.”

      “And have you answered the letter?” cried Elizabeth.

      “No; but it must be done soon.”

      Most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time
      before he wrote.

      “Oh! my dear father,” she cried, “come back and write
      immediately. Consider how important every moment is in such a
      case.”

      “Let me write for you,” said Jane, “if you dislike the trouble
      yourself.”

      “I dislike it very much,” he replied; “but it must be done.”

      And so saying, he turned back with them, and walked towards the
      house.

      “And may I ask—” said Elizabeth; “but the terms, I suppose, must
      be complied with.”

      “Complied with! I am only ashamed of his asking so little.”

      “And they _must_ marry! Yet he is _such_ a man!”

      “Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But
      there are two things that I want very much to know; one is, how
      much money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the
      other, how am I ever to pay him.”

      “Money! My uncle!” cried Jane, “what do you mean, sir?”

      “I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight
      a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty
      after I am gone.”

      “That is very true,” said Elizabeth; “though it had not occurred
      to me before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to
      remain! Oh! it must be my uncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I
      am afraid he has distressed himself. A small sum could not do all
      this.”

      “No,” said her father; “Wickham’s a fool if he takes her with a
      farthing less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to
      think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship.”

      “Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to be
      repaid?”

      Mr. Bennet made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought,
      continued silent till they reached the house. Their father then
      went on to the library to write, and the girls walked into the
      breakfast-room.

      “And they are really to be married!” cried Elizabeth, as soon as
      they were by themselves. “How strange this is! And for _this_ we
      are to be thankful. That they should marry, small as is their
      chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are
      forced to rejoice. Oh, Lydia!”

      “I comfort myself with thinking,” replied Jane, “that he
      certainly would not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for
      her. Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing
      him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like
      it, has been advanced. He has children of his own, and may have
      more. How could he spare half ten thousand pounds?”

      “If he were ever able to learn what Wickham’s debts have been,”
      said Elizabeth, “and how much is settled on his side on our
      sister, we shall exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for
      them, because Wickham has not sixpence of his own. The kindness
      of my uncle and aunt can never be requited. Their taking her
      home, and affording her their personal protection and
      countenance, is such a sacrifice to her advantage as years of
      gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time she is actually
      with them! If such goodness does not make her miserable now, she
      will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting for her, when she
      first sees my aunt!”

      “We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,”
      said Jane: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His
      consenting to marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is
      come to a right way of thinking. Their mutual affection will
      steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly,
      and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past
      imprudence forgotten.”

      “Their conduct has been such,” replied Elizabeth, “as neither
      you, nor I, nor anybody can ever forget. It is useless to talk of
      it.”

      It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all
      likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to
      the library, therefore, and asked their father whether he would
      not wish them to make it known to her. He was writing and,
      without raising his head, coolly replied:

      “Just as you please.”

      “May we take my uncle’s letter to read to her?”

      “Take whatever you like, and get away.”

      Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went
      up stairs together. Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet:
      one communication would, therefore, do for all. After a slight
      preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud. Mrs. Bennet
      could hardly contain herself. As soon as Jane had read Mr.
      Gardiner’s hope of Lydia’s being soon married, her joy burst
      forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance. She
      was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever
      been fidgety from alarm and vexation. To know that her daughter
      would be married was enough. She was disturbed by no fear for her
      felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.

      “My dear, dear Lydia!” she cried. “This is delightful indeed! She
      will be married! I shall see her again! She will be married at
      sixteen! My good, kind brother! I knew how it would be. I knew he
      would manage everything! How I long to see her! and to see dear
      Wickham too! But the clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write
      to my sister Gardiner about them directly. Lizzy, my dear, run
      down to your father, and ask him how much he will give her. Stay,
      stay, I will go myself. Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill. I will
      put on my things in a moment. My dear, dear Lydia! How merry we
      shall be together when we meet!”

      Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the
      violence of these transports, by leading her thoughts to the
      obligations which Mr. Gardiner’s behaviour laid them all under.

      “For we must attribute this happy conclusion,” she added, “in a
      great measure to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has
      pledged himself to assist Mr. Wickham with money.”

      “Well,” cried her mother, “it is all very right; who should do it
      but her own uncle? If he had not had a family of his own, I and
      my children must have had all his money, you know; and it is the
      first time we have ever had anything from him, except a few
      presents. Well! I am so happy! In a short time I shall have a
      daughter married. Mrs. Wickham! How well it sounds! And she was
      only sixteen last June. My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter,
      that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate, and you write
      for me. We will settle with your father about the money
      afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.”

      She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin,
      and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful
      orders, had not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her
      to wait till her father was at leisure to be consulted. One day’s
      delay, she observed, would be of small importance; and her mother
      was too happy to be quite so obstinate as usual. Other schemes,
      too, came into her head.

      “I will go to Meryton,” said she, “as soon as I am dressed, and
      tell the good, good news to my sister Philips. And as I come
      back, I can call on Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long. Kitty, run down and
      order the carriage. An airing would do me a great deal of good, I
      am sure. Girls, can I do anything for you in Meryton? Oh! Here
      comes Hill! My dear Hill, have you heard the good news? Miss
      Lydia is going to be married; and you shall all have a bowl of
      punch to make merry at her wedding.”

      Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy. Elizabeth received
      her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this
      folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with
      freedom.

      Poor Lydia’s situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it
      was no worse, she had need to be thankful. She felt it so; and
      though, in looking forward, neither rational happiness nor
      worldly prosperity could be justly expected for her sister, in
      looking back to what they had feared, only two hours ago, she
      felt all the advantages of what they had gained.




Chapter 50

      Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life
      that, instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an
      annual sum for the better provision of his children, and of his
      wife, if she survived him. He now wished it more than ever. Had
      he done his duty in that respect, Lydia need not have been
      indebted to her uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now
      be purchased for her. The satisfaction of prevailing on one of
      the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be her husband
      might then have rested in its proper place.

      He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to
      anyone should be forwarded at the sole expense of his
      brother-in-law, and he was determined, if possible, to find out
      the extent of his assistance, and to discharge the obligation as
      soon as he could.

      When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be
      perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son. The
      son was to join in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should
      be of age, and the widow and younger children would by that means
      be provided for. Five daughters successively entered the world,
      but yet the son was to come; and Mrs. Bennet, for many years
      after Lydia’s birth, had been certain that he would. This event
      had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be
      saving. Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and her husband’s
      love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
      income.

      Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs.
      Bennet and the children. But in what proportions it should be
      divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
      This was one point, with regard to Lydia, at least, which was now
      to be settled, and Mr. Bennet could have no hesitation in
      acceding to the proposal before him. In terms of grateful
      acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though expressed
      most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect
      approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil
      the engagements that had been made for him. He had never before
      supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his
      daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to
      himself as by the present arrangement. He would scarcely be ten
      pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them;
      for, what with her board and pocket allowance, and the continual
      presents in money which passed to her through her mother’s hands,
      Lydia’s expenses had been very little within that sum.

      That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side,
      too, was another very welcome surprise; for his wish at present
      was to have as little trouble in the business as possible. When
      the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in
      seeking her were over, he naturally returned to all his former
      indolence. His letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory
      in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution. He begged
      to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his
      brother, but was too angry with Lydia to send any message to her.

      The good news spread quickly through the house, and with
      proportionate speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in
      the latter with decent philosophy. To be sure, it would have been
      more for the advantage of conversation had Miss Lydia Bennet come
      upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded
      from the world, in some distant farmhouse. But there was much to
      be talked of in marrying her; and the good-natured wishes for her
      well-doing which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old
      ladies in Meryton lost but a little of their spirit in this
      change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery
      was considered certain.

      It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on
      this happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table,
      and in spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a
      damp to her triumph. The marriage of a daughter, which had been
      the first object of her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on
      the point of accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran
      wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new
      carriages, and servants. She was busily searching through the
      neighbourhood for a proper situation for her daughter, and,
      without knowing or considering what their income might be,
      rejected many as deficient in size and importance.

      “Haye Park might do,” said she, “if the Gouldings could quit
      it—or the great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger;
      but Ashworth is too far off! I could not bear to have her ten
      miles from me; and as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.”

      Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the
      servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to her:
      “Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your
      son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into
      _one_ house in this neighbourhood they shall never have
      admittance. I will not encourage the impudence of either, by
      receiving them at Longbourn.”

      A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was
      firm. It soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with
      amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea
      to buy clothes for his daughter. He protested that she should
      receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion.
      Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it. That his anger could be
      carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse
      his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would
      scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible. She
      was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new clothes must
      reflect on her daughter’s nuptials, than to any sense of shame at
      her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they took
      place.

      Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the
      distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted
      with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so
      shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, they might
      hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who
      were not immediately on the spot.

      She had no fear of its spreading farther through his means. There
      were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently
      depended; but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge
      of a sister’s frailty would have mortified her so much—not,
      however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to
      herself, for, at any rate, there seemed a gulf impassable between
      them. Had Lydia’s marriage been concluded on the most honourable
      terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect
      himself with a family where, to every other objection, would now
      be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with a
      man whom he so justly scorned.

      From such a connection she could not wonder that he would shrink.
      The wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself
      of his feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation
      survive such a blow as this. She was humbled, she was grieved;
      she repented, though she hardly knew of what. She became jealous
      of his esteem, when she could no longer hope to be benefited by
      it. She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance
      of gaining intelligence. She was convinced that she could have
      been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they should
      meet.

      What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that
      the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago,
      would now have been most gladly and gratefully received! He was
      as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex;
      but while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.

      She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in
      disposition and talents, would most suit her. His understanding
      and temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her
      wishes. It was an union that must have been to the advantage of
      both; by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been
      softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement,
      information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received
      benefit of greater importance.

      But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude
      what connubial felicity really was. An union of a different
      tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon
      to be formed in their family.

      How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable
      independence, she could not imagine. But how little of permanent
      happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together
      because their passions were stronger than their virtue, she could
      easily conjecture.

      Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. Bennet’s
      acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his
      eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and
      concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be
      mentioned to him again. The principal purport of his letter was
      to inform them that Mr. Wickham had resolved on quitting the
      militia.

      “It was greatly my wish that he should do so,” he added, “as soon
      as his marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with me,
      in considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable,
      both on his account and my niece’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention
      to go into the regulars; and among his former friends, there are
      still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army. He
      has the promise of an ensigncy in General ——’s regiment, now
      quartered in the North. It is an advantage to have it so far from
      this part of the kingdom. He promises fairly; and I hope among
      different people, where they may each have a character to
      preserve, they will both be more prudent. I have written to
      Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements, and
      to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr.
      Wickham in and near Brighton, with assurances of speedy payment,
      for which I have pledged myself. And will you give yourself the
      trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in
      Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to his
      information? He has given in all his debts; I hope at least he
      has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and all will
      be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment, unless
      they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs.
      Gardiner, that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before
      she leaves the South. She is well, and begs to be dutifully
      remembered to you and her mother.—Yours, etc.,

      “E. GARDINER.”

      Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham’s
      removal from the ——shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But
      Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lydia’s being
      settled in the North, just when she had expected most pleasure
      and pride in her company, for she had by no means given up her
      plan of their residing in Hertfordshire, was a severe
      disappointment; and, besides, it was such a pity that Lydia
      should be taken from a regiment where she was acquainted with
      everybody, and had so many favourites.

      “She is so fond of Mrs. Forster,” said she, “it will be quite
      shocking to send her away! And there are several of the young
      men, too, that she likes very much. The officers may not be so
      pleasant in General ——’s regiment.”

      His daughter’s request, for such it might be considered, of being
      admitted into her family again before she set off for the North,
      received at first an absolute negative. But Jane and Elizabeth,
      who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister’s feelings
      and consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by
      her parents, urged him so earnestly yet so rationally and so
      mildly, to receive her and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as
      they were married, that he was prevailed on to think as they
      thought, and act as they wished. And their mother had the
      satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show her
      married daughter in the neighbourhood before she was banished to
      the North. When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore,
      he sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that
      as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to
      Longbourn. Elizabeth was surprised, however, that Wickham should
      consent to such a scheme, and had she consulted only her own
      inclination, any meeting with him would have been the last object
      of her wishes.




Chapter 51

      Their sister’s wedding day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt
      for her probably more than she felt for herself. The carriage was
      sent to meet them at ——, and they were to return in it by
      dinner-time. Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets,
      and Jane more especially, who gave Lydia the feelings which would
      have attended herself, had _she_ been the culprit, and was
      wretched in the thought of what her sister must endure.

      They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast room to
      receive them. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet as the
      carriage drove up to the door; her husband looked impenetrably
      grave; her daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.

      Lydia’s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown
      open, and she ran into the room. Her mother stepped forwards,
      embraced her, and welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand, with
      an affectionate smile, to Wickham, who followed his lady; and
      wished them both joy with an alacrity which shewed no doubt of
      their happiness.

      Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was
      not quite so cordial. His countenance rather gained in austerity;
      and he scarcely opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young
      couple, indeed, was enough to provoke him. Elizabeth was
      disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked. Lydia was Lydia
      still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless. She turned
      from sister to sister, demanding their congratulations; and when
      at length they all sat down, looked eagerly round the room, took
      notice of some little alteration in it, and observed, with a
      laugh, that it was a great while since she had been there.

      Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself, but his
      manners were always so pleasing, that had his character and his
      marriage been exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy
      address, while he claimed their relationship, would have
      delighted them all. Elizabeth had not before believed him quite
      equal to such assurance; but she sat down, resolving within
      herself to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an
      impudent man. _She_ blushed, and Jane blushed; but the cheeks of
      the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of
      colour.

      There was no want of discourse. The bride and her mother could
      neither of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to
      sit near Elizabeth, began enquiring after his acquaintance in
      that neighbourhood, with a good humoured ease which she felt very
      unable to equal in her replies. They seemed each of them to have
      the happiest memories in the world. Nothing of the past was
      recollected with pain; and Lydia led voluntarily to subjects
      which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.

      “Only think of its being three months,” she cried, “since I went
      away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been
      things enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went
      away, I am sure I had no more idea of being married till I came
      back again! though I thought it would be very good fun if I was.”

      Her father lifted up his eyes. Jane was distressed. Elizabeth
      looked expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw
      anything of which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued,
      “Oh! mamma, do the people hereabouts know I am married to-day? I
      was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in
      his curricle, so I was determined he should know it, and so I let
      down the side-glass next to him, and took off my glove, and let
      my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that he might see the
      ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything.”

      Elizabeth could bear it no longer. She got up, and ran out of the
      room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through
      the hall to the dining parlour. She then joined them soon enough
      to see Lydia, with anxious parade, walk up to her mother’s right
      hand, and hear her say to her eldest sister, “Ah! Jane, I take
      your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married
      woman.”

      It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that
      embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
      Her ease and good spirits increased. She longed to see Mrs.
      Phillips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to
      hear herself called “Mrs. Wickham” by each of them; and in the
      mean time, she went after dinner to show her ring, and boast of
      being married, to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids.

      “Well, mamma,” said she, when they were all returned to the
      breakfast room, “and what do you think of my husband? Is not he a
      charming man? I am sure my sisters must all envy me. I only hope
      they may have half my good luck. They must all go to Brighton.
      That is the place to get husbands. What a pity it is, mamma, we
      did not all go.”

      “Very true; and if I had my will, we should. But my dear Lydia, I
      don’t at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?”

      “Oh, lord! yes;—there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all
      things. You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
      We shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there
      will be some balls, and I will take care to get good partners for
      them all.”

      “I should like it beyond anything!” said her mother.

      “And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my
      sisters behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them
      before the winter is over.”

      “I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elizabeth; “but I
      do not particularly like your way of getting husbands.”

      Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them. Mr.
      Wickham had received his commission before he left London, and he
      was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.

      No one but Mrs. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so
      short; and she made the most of the time by visiting about with
      her daughter, and having very frequent parties at home. These
      parties were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even
      more desirable to such as did think, than such as did not.

      Wickham’s affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had
      expected to find it; not equal to Lydia’s for him. She had
      scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied, from the
      reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the
      strength of her love, rather than by his; and she would have
      wondered why, without violently caring for her, he chose to elope
      with her at all, had she not felt certain that his flight was
      rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were
      the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of
      having a companion.

      Lydia was exceedingly fond of him. He was her dear Wickham on
      every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He
      did every thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill
      more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the
      country.

      One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with
      her two elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth:

      “Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe.
      You were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it.
      Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?”

      “No really,” replied Elizabeth; “I think there cannot be too
      little said on the subject.”

      “La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We
      were married, you know, at St. Clement’s, because Wickham’s
      lodgings were in that parish. And it was settled that we should
      all be there by eleven o’clock. My uncle and aunt and I were to
      go together; and the others were to meet us at the church. Well,
      Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid,
      you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I
      should have gone quite distracted. And there was my aunt, all the
      time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she
      was reading a sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in
      ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham. I
      longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat.”

      “Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; I thought it would
      never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my
      uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with
      them. If you’ll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of
      doors, though I was there a fortnight. Not one party, or scheme,
      or anything. To be sure London was rather thin, but, however, the
      Little Theatre was open. Well, and so just as the carriage came
      to the door, my uncle was called away upon business to that
      horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you know, when once they get
      together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so frightened I did
      not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we
      were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day. But,
      luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all
      set out. However, I recollected afterwards that if he _had_ been
      prevented going, the wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy
      might have done as well.”

      “Mr. Darcy!” repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.

      “Oh, yes!—he was to come there with Wickham, you know. But
      gracious me! I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word
      about it. I promised them so faithfully! What will Wickham say?
      It was to be such a secret!”

      “If it was to be secret,” said Jane, “say not another word on the
      subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.”

      “Oh! certainly,” said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity;
      “we will ask you no questions.”

      “Thank you,” said Lydia, “for if you did, I should certainly tell
      you all, and then Wickham would be angry.”

      On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out
      of her power, by running away.

      But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at
      least it was impossible not to try for information. Mr. Darcy had
      been at her sister’s wedding. It was exactly a scene, and exactly
      among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least
      temptation to go. Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and
      wild, hurried into her brain; but she was satisfied with none.
      Those that best pleased her, as placing his conduct in the
      noblest light, seemed most improbable. She could not bear such
      suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short
      letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what Lydia had
      dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
      intended.

      “You may readily comprehend,” she added, “what my curiosity must
      be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and
      (comparatively speaking) a stranger to our family, should have
      been amongst you at such a time. Pray write instantly, and let me
      understand it—unless it is, for very cogent reasons, to remain in
      the secrecy which Lydia seems to think necessary; and then I must
      endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance.”

      “Not that I _shall_, though,” she added to herself, as she
      finished the letter; “and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in
      an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and
      stratagems to find it out.”

      Jane’s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to
      Elizabeth privately of what Lydia had let fall; Elizabeth was
      glad of it;—till it appeared whether her enquiries would receive
      any satisfaction, she had rather be without a confidante.




Chapter 52

      Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her
      letter as soon as she possibly could. She was no sooner in
      possession of it than, hurrying into the little copse, where she
      was least likely to be interrupted, she sat down on one of the
      benches and prepared to be happy; for the length of the letter
      convinced her that it did not contain a denial.

      “Gracechurch Street, _Sept_. 6.

      “My dear Niece,

      “I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole
      morning to answering it, as I foresee that a _little_ writing
      will not comprise what I have to tell you. I must confess myself
      surprised by your application; I did not expect it from _you_.
      Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know
      that I had not imagined such enquiries to be necessary on _your_
      side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my
      impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am—and nothing
      but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed
      him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
      ignorant, I must be more explicit.

      “On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your uncle had
      a most unexpected visitor. Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up with
      him several hours. It was all over before I arrived; so my
      curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as _yours_ seems to have
      been. He came to tell Mr. Gardiner that he had found out where
      your sister and Mr. Wickham were, and that he had seen and talked
      with them both; Wickham repeatedly, Lydia once. From what I can
      collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and
      came to town with the resolution of hunting for them. The motive
      professed was his conviction of its being owing to himself that
      Wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well known as to make it
      impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide in
      him. He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and
      confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his
      private actions open to the world. His character was to speak for
      itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and
      endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
      If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never disgrace
      him. He had been some days in town, before he was able to
      discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which
      was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another
      reason for his resolving to follow us.

      “There is a lady, it seems, a Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago
      governess to Miss Darcy, and was dismissed from her charge on
      some cause of disapprobation, though he did not say what. She
      then took a large house in Edward-street, and has since
      maintained herself by letting lodgings. This Mrs. Younge was, he
      knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he went to her for
      intelligence of him as soon as he got to town. But it was two or
      three days before he could get from her what he wanted. She would
      not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption,
      for she really did know where her friend was to be found. Wickham
      indeed had gone to her on their first arrival in London, and had
      she been able to receive them into her house, they would have
      taken up their abode with her. At length, however, our kind
      friend procured the wished-for direction. They were in —— street.
      He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia. His
      first object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade her
      to quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her
      friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive her,
      offering his assistance, as far as it would go. But he found
      Lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was. She cared
      for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not
      hear of leaving Wickham. She was sure they should be married some
      time or other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were
      her feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and
      expedite a marriage, which, in his very first conversation with
      Wickham, he easily learnt had never been _his_ design. He
      confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment, on account of
      some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and scrupled not
      to lay all the ill-consequences of Lydia’s flight on her own
      folly alone. He meant to resign his commission immediately; and
      as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about
      it. He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew
      he should have nothing to live on.

      “Mr. Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
      Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have
      been able to do something for him, and his situation must have
      been benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this
      question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more
      effectually making his fortune by marriage in some other country.
      Under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof
      against the temptation of immediate relief.

      “They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
      Wickham of course wanted more than he could get; but at length
      was reduced to be reasonable.

      “Everything being settled between _them_, Mr. Darcy’s next step
      was to make your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in
      Gracechurch street the evening before I came home. But Mr.
      Gardiner could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further
      enquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town
      the next morning. He did not judge your father to be a person
      whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore
      readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the
      former. He did not leave his name, and till the next day it was
      only known that a gentleman had called on business.

      “On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your uncle at
      home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk
      together.

      “They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It was not
      all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was
      sent off to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I
      fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character,
      after all. He has been accused of many faults at different times,
      but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did
      not do himself; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be
      thanked, therefore say nothing about it), your uncle would most
      readily have settled the whole.

      “They battled it together for a long time, which was more than
      either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved. But at
      last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed
      to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up with only having
      the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain;
      and I really believe your letter this morning gave him great
      pleasure, because it required an explanation that would rob him
      of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where it was due.
      But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or Jane at
      most.

      “You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the
      young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to
      considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in
      addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his commission
      purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him alone,
      was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his
      reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham’s
      character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had
      been received and noticed as he was. Perhaps there was some truth
      in _this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody’s_
      reserve, can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all
      this fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured
      that your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him
      credit for _another interest_ in the affair.

      “When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends,
      who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he
      should be in London once more when the wedding took place, and
      all money matters were then to receive the last finish.

      “I believe I have now told you every thing. It is a relation
      which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least
      it will not afford you any displeasure. Lydia came to us; and
      Wickham had constant admission to the house. _He_ was exactly
      what he had been, when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I would
      not tell you how little I was satisfied with _her_ behaviour
      while she staid with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane’s letter
      last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a
      piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no
      fresh pain. I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious
      manner, representing to her all the wickedness of what she had
      done, and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If
      she heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure she did not
      listen. I was sometimes quite provoked, but then I recollected my
      dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for their sakes had patience with
      her.

      “Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return, and as Lydia informed you,
      attended the wedding. He dined with us the next day, and was to
      leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry
      with me, my dear Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying
      (what I was never bold enough to say before) how much I like him.
      His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as
      when we were in Derbyshire. His understanding and opinions all
      please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and
      _that_, if he marry _prudently_, his wife may teach him. I
      thought him very sly;—he hardly ever mentioned your name. But
      slyness seems the fashion.

      “Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do
      not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be
      quite happy till I have been all round the park. A low phaeton,
      with a nice little pair of ponies, would be the very thing.

      “But I must write no more. The children have been wanting me this
      half hour.

      “Yours, very sincerely,
      “M. GARDINER.”

      The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of
      spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure
      or pain bore the greatest share. The vague and unsettled
      suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what Mr. Darcy might
      have been doing to forward her sister’s match, which she had
      feared to encourage as an exertion of goodness too great to be
      probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the pain
      of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be
      true! He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on
      himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a
      research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman
      whom he must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to
      meet, frequently meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe,
      the man whom he always most wished to avoid, and whose very name
      it was punishment to him to pronounce. He had done all this for a
      girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem. Her heart did
      whisper that he had done it for her. But it was a hope shortly
      checked by other considerations, and she soon felt that even her
      vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection
      for her—for a woman who had already refused him—as able to
      overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against
      relationship with Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind
      of pride must revolt from the connection. He had, to be sure,
      done much. She was ashamed to think how much. But he had given a
      reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch
      of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel he had been
      wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it;
      and though she would not place herself as his principal
      inducement, she could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality
      for her might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of
      mind must be materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly
      painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who
      could never receive a return. They owed the restoration of Lydia,
      her character, every thing, to him. Oh! how heartily did she
      grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged,
      every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him. For herself
      she was humbled; but she was proud of him. Proud that in a cause
      of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of
      himself. She read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and
      again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased her. She was even
      sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding
      how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that
      affection and confidence subsisted between Mr. Darcy and herself.

      She was roused from her seat, and her reflections, by some one’s
      approach; and before she could strike into another path, she was
      overtaken by Wickham.

      “I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?”
      said he, as he joined her.

      “You certainly do,” she replied with a smile; “but it does not
      follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.”

      “I should be sorry indeed, if it were. _We_ were always good
      friends; and now we are better.”

      “True. Are the others coming out?”

      “I do not know. Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage
      to Meryton. And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and
      aunt, that you have actually seen Pemberley.”

      She replied in the affirmative.

      “I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be
      too much for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle.
      And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, she
      was always very fond of me. But of course she did not mention my
      name to you.”

      “Yes, she did.”

      “And what did she say?”

      “That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had—not
      turned out well. At such a distance as _that_, you know, things
      are strangely misrepresented.”

      “Certainly,” he replied, biting his lips. Elizabeth hoped she had
      silenced him; but he soon afterwards said:

      “I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month. We passed each
      other several times. I wonder what he can be doing there.”

      “Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh,” said
      Elizabeth. “It must be something particular, to take him there at
      this time of year.”

      “Undoubtedly. Did you see him while you were at Lambton? I
      thought I understood from the Gardiners that you had.”

      “Yes; he introduced us to his sister.”

      “And do you like her?”

      “Very much.”

      “I have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within
      this year or two. When I last saw her, she was not very
      promising. I am very glad you liked her. I hope she will turn out
      well.”

      “I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age.”

      “Did you go by the village of Kympton?”

      “I do not recollect that we did.”

      “I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have
      had. A most delightful place!—Excellent Parsonage House! It would
      have suited me in every respect.”

      “How should you have liked making sermons?”

      “Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my
      duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought
      not to repine;—but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing
      for me! The quiet, the retirement of such a life would have
      answered all my ideas of happiness! But it was not to be. Did you
      ever hear Darcy mention the circumstance, when you were in Kent?”

      “I _have_ heard from authority, which I thought _as good_, that
      it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the
      present patron.”

      “You have. Yes, there was something in _that_; I told you so from
      the first, you may remember.”

      “I _did_ hear, too, that there was a time, when sermon-making was
      not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you
      actually declared your resolution of never taking orders, and
      that the business had been compromised accordingly.”

      “You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may
      remember what I told you on that point, when first we talked of
      it.”

      They were now almost at the door of the house, for she had walked
      fast to get rid of him; and unwilling, for her sister’s sake, to
      provoke him, she only said in reply, with a good-humoured smile:

      “Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not
      let us quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be
      always of one mind.”

      She held out her hand; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry,
      though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.




Chapter 53

      Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation
      that he never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear
      sister Elizabeth, by introducing the subject of it; and she was
      pleased to find that she had said enough to keep him quiet.

      The day of his and Lydia’s departure soon came, and Mrs. Bennet
      was forced to submit to a separation, which, as her husband by no
      means entered into her scheme of their all going to Newcastle,
      was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.

      “Oh! my dear Lydia,” she cried, “when shall we meet again?”

      “Oh, lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.”

      “Write to me very often, my dear.”

      “As often as I can. But you know married women have never much
      time for writing. My sisters may write to _me_. They will have
      nothing else to do.”

      Mr. Wickham’s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife’s.
      He smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.

      “He is as fine a fellow,” said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were
      out of the house, “as ever I saw. He simpers, and smirks, and
      makes love to us all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even
      Sir William Lucas himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law.”

      The loss of her daughter made Mrs. Bennet very dull for several
      days.

      “I often think,” said she, “that there is nothing so bad as
      parting with one’s friends. One seems so forlorn without them.”

      “This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a
      daughter,” said Elizabeth. “It must make you better satisfied
      that your other four are single.”

      “It is no such thing. Lydia does not leave me because she is
      married, but only because her husband’s regiment happens to be so
      far off. If that had been nearer, she would not have gone so
      soon.”

      But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was
      shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of
      hope, by an article of news which then began to be in
      circulation. The housekeeper at Netherfield had received orders
      to prepare for the arrival of her master, who was coming down in
      a day or two, to shoot there for several weeks. Mrs. Bennet was
      quite in the fidgets. She looked at Jane, and smiled and shook
      her head by turns.

      “Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister,” (for
      Mrs. Phillips first brought her the news). “Well, so much the
      better. Not that I care about it, though. He is nothing to us,
      you know, and I am sure I never want to see him again. But,
      however, he is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if he likes
      it. And who knows what _may_ happen? But that is nothing to us.
      You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention a word
      about it. And so, is it quite certain he is coming?”

      “You may depend on it,” replied the other, “for Mrs. Nicholls was
      in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself
      on purpose to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was
      certain true. He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very
      likely on Wednesday. She was going to the butcher’s, she told me,
      on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and she has got
      three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.”

      Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without
      changing colour. It was many months since she had mentioned his
      name to Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together,
      she said:

      “I saw you look at me to-day, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the
      present report; and I know I appeared distressed. But don’t
      imagine it was from any silly cause. I was only confused for the
      moment, because I felt that I _should_ be looked at. I do assure
      you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or
      pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we
      shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid of _myself_, but
      I dread other people’s remarks.”

      Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him
      in Derbyshire, she might have supposed him capable of coming
      there with no other view than what was acknowledged; but she
      still thought him partial to Jane, and she wavered as to the
      greater probability of his coming there _with_ his friend’s
      permission, or being bold enough to come without it.

      “Yet it is hard,” she sometimes thought, “that this poor man
      cannot come to a house which he has legally hired, without
      raising all this speculation! I _will_ leave him to himself.”

      In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be
      her feelings in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could
      easily perceive that her spirits were affected by it. They were
      more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.

      The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their
      parents, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.

      “As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet,
      “you will wait on him of course.”

      “No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised,
      if I went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it
      ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand
      again.”

      His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an
      attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his
      returning to Netherfield.

      “’Tis an _etiquette_ I despise,” said he. “If he wants our
      society, let him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not
      spend _my_ hours in running after my neighbours every time they
      go away and come back again.”

      “Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do
      not wait on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him
      to dine here, I am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the
      Gouldings soon. That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there
      will be just room at table for him.”

      Consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her
      husband’s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that
      her neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it,
      before _they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,—

      “I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,” said Jane to her
      sister. “It would be nothing; I could see him with perfect
      indifference, but I can hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually
      talked of. My mother means well; but she does not know, no one
      can know, how much I suffer from what she says. Happy shall I be,
      when his stay at Netherfield is over!”

      “I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elizabeth;
      “but it is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the
      usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied
      me, because you have always so much.”

      Mr. Bingley arrived. Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of
      servants, contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the
      period of anxiety and fretfulness on her side might be as long as
      it could. She counted the days that must intervene before their
      invitation could be sent; hopeless of seeing him before. But on
      the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw
      him, from her dressing-room window, enter the paddock and ride
      towards the house.

      Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. Jane
      resolutely kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy
      her mother, went to the window—she looked,—she saw Mr. Darcy with
      him, and sat down again by her sister.

      “There is a gentleman with him, mamma,” said Kitty; “who can it
      be?”

      “Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do
      not know.”

      “La!” replied Kitty, “it looks just like that man that used to be
      with him before. Mr. what’s-his-name. That tall, proud man.”

      “Good gracious! Mr. Darcy!—and so it does, I vow. Well, any
      friend of Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure;
      but else I must say that I hate the very sight of him.”

      Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. She knew but
      little of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the
      awkwardness which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost
      for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter. Both
      sisters were uncomfortable enough. Each felt for the other, and
      of course for themselves; and their mother talked on, of her
      dislike of Mr. Darcy, and her resolution to be civil to him only
      as Mr. Bingley’s friend, without being heard by either of them.
      But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be
      suspected by Jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to shew
      Mrs. Gardiner’s letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment
      towards him. To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she
      had refused, and whose merit she had undervalued; but to her own
      more extensive information, he was the person to whom the whole
      family were indebted for the first of benefits, and whom she
      regarded herself with an interest, if not quite so tender, at
      least as reasonable and just as what Jane felt for Bingley. Her
      astonishment at his coming—at his coming to Netherfield, to
      Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again, was almost equal to
      what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in
      Derbyshire.

      The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half
      a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added
      lustre to her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that
      his affection and wishes must still be unshaken. But she would
      not be secure.

      “Let me first see how he behaves,” said she; “it will then be
      early enough for expectation.”

      She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without
      daring to lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them
      to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the
      door. Jane looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than
      Elizabeth had expected. On the gentlemen’s appearing, her colour
      increased; yet she received them with tolerable ease, and with a
      propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of
      resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.

      Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and
      sat down again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not
      often command. She had ventured only one glance at Darcy. He
      looked serious, as usual; and, she thought, more as he had been
      used to look in Hertfordshire, than as she had seen him at
      Pemberley. But, perhaps he could not in her mother’s presence be
      what he was before her uncle and aunt. It was a painful, but not
      an improbable, conjecture.

      Bingley, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short
      period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed. He was
      received by Mrs. Bennet with a degree of civility which made her
      two daughters ashamed, especially when contrasted with the cold
      and ceremonious politeness of her curtsey and address to his
      friend.

      Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the
      latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from
      irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful
      degree by a distinction so ill applied.

      Darcy, after enquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did, a
      question which she could not answer without confusion, said
      scarcely anything. He was not seated by her; perhaps that was the
      reason of his silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire.
      There he had talked to her friends, when he could not to herself.
      But now several minutes elapsed without bringing the sound of his
      voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of
      curiosity, she raised her eyes to his face, she as often found
      him looking at Jane as at herself, and frequently on no object
      but the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please,
      than when they last met, were plainly expressed. She was
      disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.

      “Could I expect it to be otherwise!” said she. “Yet why did he
      come?”

      She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself;
      and to him she had hardly courage to speak.

      She enquired after his sister, but could do no more.

      “It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away,” said Mrs.
      Bennet.

      He readily agreed to it.

      “I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People
      _did_ say you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas;
      but, however, I hope it is not true. A great many changes have
      happened in the neighbourhood, since you went away. Miss Lucas is
      married and settled. And one of my own daughters. I suppose you
      have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers. It
      was in The Times and The Courier, I know; though it was not put
      in as it ought to be. It was only said, ‘Lately, George Wickham,
      Esq. to Miss Lydia Bennet,’ without there being a syllable said
      of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything. It was
      my brother Gardiner’s drawing up too, and I wonder how he came to
      make such an awkward business of it. Did you see it?”

      Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
      Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes. How Mr. Darcy looked,
      therefore, she could not tell.

      “It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well
      married,” continued her mother, “but at the same time, Mr.
      Bingley, it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me.
      They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it
      seems, and there they are to stay I do not know how long. His
      regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving
      the ——shire, and of his being gone into the regulars. Thank
      Heaven! he has _some_ friends, though perhaps not so many as he
      deserves.”

      Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such
      misery of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat. It drew
      from her, however, the exertion of speaking, which nothing else
      had so effectually done before; and she asked Bingley whether he
      meant to make any stay in the country at present. A few weeks, he
      believed.

      “When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,” said her
      mother, “I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you
      please on Mr. Bennet’s manor. I am sure he will be vastly happy
      to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you.”

      Elizabeth’s misery increased, at such unnecessary, such officious
      attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had
      flattered them a year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would
      be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant,
      she felt that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself
      amends for moments of such painful confusion.

      “The first wish of my heart,” said she to herself, “is never more
      to be in company with either of them. Their society can afford no
      pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me
      never see either one or the other again!”

      Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no
      compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from
      observing how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the
      admiration of her former lover. When first he came in, he had
      spoken to her but little; but every five minutes seemed to be
      giving her more of his attention. He found her as handsome as she
      had been last year; as good natured, and as unaffected, though
      not quite so chatty. Jane was anxious that no difference should
      be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded that she
      talked as much as ever. But her mind was so busily engaged, that
      she did not always know when she was silent.

      When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of
      her intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine
      at Longbourn in a few days time.

      “You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,” she added, “for
      when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family
      dinner with us, as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you
      see; and I assure you, I was very much disappointed that you did
      not come back and keep your engagement.”

      Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said
      something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
      They then went away.

      Mrs. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and
      dine there that day; but, though she always kept a very good
      table, she did not think anything less than two courses could be
      good enough for a man on whom she had such anxious designs, or
      satisfy the appetite and pride of one who had ten thousand a
      year.




Chapter 54

      As soon as they were gone, Elizabeth walked out to recover her
      spirits; or in other words, to dwell without interruption on
      those subjects that must deaden them more. Mr. Darcy’s behaviour
      astonished and vexed her.

      “Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent,” said
      she, “did he come at all?”

      She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.

      “He could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt,
      when he was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come
      hither? If he no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing,
      teasing, man! I will think no more about him.”

      Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the
      approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look,
      which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than
      Elizabeth.

      “Now,” said she, “that this first meeting is over, I feel
      perfectly easy. I know my own strength, and I shall never be
      embarrassed again by his coming. I am glad he dines here on
      Tuesday. It will then be publicly seen that, on both sides, we
      meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance.”

      “Yes, very indifferent indeed,” said Elizabeth, laughingly. “Oh,
      Jane, take care.”

      “My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak, as to be in danger
      now?”

      “I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in
      love with you as ever.”

      They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs.
      Bennet, in the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy
      schemes, which the good humour and common politeness of Bingley,
      in half an hour’s visit, had revived.

      On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and
      the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their
      punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time. When they
      repaired to the dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see
      whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all their former
      parties, had belonged to him, by her sister. Her prudent mother,
      occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite him to sit by
      herself. On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but Jane
      happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided. He
      placed himself by her.

      Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his
      friend. He bore it with noble indifference, and she would have
      imagined that Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had
      she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an
      expression of half-laughing alarm.

      His behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as
      showed an admiration of her, which, though more guarded than
      formerly, persuaded Elizabeth, that if left wholly to himself,
      Jane’s happiness, and his own, would be speedily secured. Though
      she dared not depend upon the consequence, she yet received
      pleasure from observing his behaviour. It gave her all the
      animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in no
      cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the
      table could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She
      knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either,
      or make either appear to advantage. She was not near enough to
      hear any of their discourse, but she could see how seldom they
      spoke to each other, and how formal and cold was their manner
      whenever they did. Her mother’s ungraciousness, made the sense of
      what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth’s mind; and she
      would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell him
      that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of
      the family.

      She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity
      of bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not
      pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of
      conversation than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his
      entrance. Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the
      drawing-room, before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull
      to a degree that almost made her uncivil. She looked forward to
      their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure
      for the evening must depend.

      “If he does not come to me, _then_,” said she, “I shall give him
      up for ever.”

      The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
      answered her hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the
      table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring
      out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a
      single vacancy near her which would admit of a chair. And on the
      gentlemen’s approaching, one of the girls moved closer to her
      than ever, and said, in a whisper:

      “The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. We want none
      of them; do we?”

      Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. She followed
      him with her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely
      patience enough to help anybody to coffee; and then was enraged
      against herself for being so silly!

      “A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish
      enough to expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the
      sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second
      proposal to the same woman? There is no indignity so abhorrent to
      their feelings!”

      She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his
      coffee cup himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying:

      “Is your sister at Pemberley still?”

      “Yes, she will remain there till Christmas.”

      “And quite alone? Have all her friends left her?”

      “Mrs. Annesley is with her. The others have been gone on to
      Scarborough, these three weeks.”

      She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to
      converse with her, he might have better success. He stood by her,
      however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young
      lady’s whispering to Elizabeth again, he walked away.

      When the tea-things were removed, and the card-tables placed, the
      ladies all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined
      by him, when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a
      victim to her mother’s rapacity for whist players, and in a few
      moments after seated with the rest of the party. She now lost
      every expectation of pleasure. They were confined for the evening
      at different tables, and she had nothing to hope, but that his
      eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room, as to
      make him play as unsuccessfully as herself.

      Mrs. Bennet had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to
      supper; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any of
      the others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them.

      “Well girls,” said she, as soon as they were left to themselves,
      “What say you to the day? I think every thing has passed off
      uncommonly well, I assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as
      any I ever saw. The venison was roasted to a turn—and everybody
      said they never saw so fat a haunch. The soup was fifty times
      better than what we had at the Lucases’ last week; and even Mr.
      Darcy acknowledged, that the partridges were remarkably well
      done; and I suppose he has two or three French cooks at least.
      And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater beauty. Mrs.
      Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not. And what
      do you think she said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Bennet, we shall have
      her at Netherfield at last.’ She did indeed. I do think Mrs. Long
      is as good a creature as ever lived—and her nieces are very
      pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome: I like them
      prodigiously.”

      Mrs. Bennet, in short, was in very great spirits; she had seen
      enough of Bingley’s behaviour to Jane, to be convinced that she
      would get him at last; and her expectations of advantage to her
      family, when in a happy humour, were so far beyond reason, that
      she was quite disappointed at not seeing him there again the next
      day, to make his proposals.

      “It has been a very agreeable day,” said Miss Bennet to
      Elizabeth. “The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one
      with the other. I hope we may often meet again.”

      Elizabeth smiled.

      “Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies
      me. I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation
      as an agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish
      beyond it. I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now
      are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection. It is
      only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a
      stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man.”

      “You are very cruel,” said her sister, “you will not let me
      smile, and are provoking me to it every moment.”

      “How hard it is in some cases to be believed!”

      “And how impossible in others!”

      “But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I
      acknowledge?”

      “That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all
      love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth
      knowing. Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not
      make _me_ your confidante.”




Chapter 55

      A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone.
      His friend had left him that morning for London, but was to
      return home in ten days time. He sat with them above an hour, and
      was in remarkably good spirits. Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine
      with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed
      himself engaged elsewhere.

      “Next time you call,” said she, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”

      He should be particularly happy at any time, etc. etc.; and if
      she would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of
      waiting on them.

      “Can you come to-morrow?”

      Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her
      invitation was accepted with alacrity.

      He came, and in such very good time that the ladies were none of
      them dressed. In ran Mrs. Bennet to her daughter’s room, in her
      dressing gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out:

      “My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down. He is come—Mr. Bingley
      is come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Sarah, come
      to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never
      mind Miss Lizzy’s hair.”

      “We will be down as soon as we can,” said Jane; “but I dare say
      Kitty is forwarder than either of us, for she went up stairs half
      an hour ago.”

      “Oh! hang Kitty! what has she to do with it? Come be quick, be
      quick! Where is your sash, my dear?”

      But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to
      go down without one of her sisters.

      The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in
      the evening. After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was
      his custom, and Mary went up stairs to her instrument. Two
      obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking
      and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time,
      without making any impression on them. Elizabeth would not
      observe her; and when at last Kitty did, she very innocently
      said, “What is the matter mamma? What do you keep winking at me
      for? What am I to do?”

      “Nothing child, nothing. I did not wink at you.” She then sat
      still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious
      occasion, she suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty, “Come here,
      my love, I want to speak to you,” took her out of the room. Jane
      instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at
      such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in
      to it. In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and
      called out:

      “Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you.”

      Elizabeth was forced to go.

      “We may as well leave them by themselves you know;” said her
      mother, as soon as she was in the hall. “Kitty and I are going up
      stairs to sit in my dressing-room.”

      Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained
      quietly in the hall, till she and Kitty were out of sight, then
      returned into the drawing-room.

      Mrs. Bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was
      every thing that was charming, except the professed lover of her
      daughter. His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable
      addition to their evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged
      officiousness of the mother, and heard all her silly remarks with
      a forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to
      the daughter.

      He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he
      went away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and
      Mrs. Bennet’s means, for his coming next morning to shoot with
      her husband.

      After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference. Not a word
      passed between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went
      to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded,
      unless Mr. Darcy returned within the stated time. Seriously,
      however, she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have
      taken place with that gentleman’s concurrence.

      Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet
      spent the morning together, as had been agreed on. The latter was
      much more agreeable than his companion expected. There was
      nothing of presumption or folly in Bingley that could provoke his
      ridicule, or disgust him into silence; and he was more
      communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen
      him. Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the
      evening Mrs. Bennet’s invention was again at work to get every
      body away from him and her daughter. Elizabeth, who had a letter
      to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon
      after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards,
      she could not be wanted to counteract her mother’s schemes.

      But on returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was
      finished, she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to
      fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her. On opening
      the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together
      over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had
      this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily
      turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it
      all. _Their_ situation was awkward enough; but _hers_ she thought
      was still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by either; and
      Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who
      as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and whispering
      a few words to her sister, ran out of the room.

      Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence
      would give pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged,
      with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in
      the world.

      “’Tis too much!” she added, “by far too much. I do not deserve
      it. Oh! why is not everybody as happy?”

      Elizabeth’s congratulations were given with a sincerity, a
      warmth, a delight, which words could but poorly express. Every
      sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane. But
      she would not allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half
      that remained to be said for the present.

      “I must go instantly to my mother;” she cried. “I would not on
      any account trifle with her affectionate solicitude; or allow her
      to hear it from anyone but myself. He is gone to my father
      already. Oh! Lizzy, to know that what I have to relate will give
      such pleasure to all my dear family! how shall I bear so much
      happiness!”

      She then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up
      the card party, and was sitting up stairs with Kitty.

      Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity
      and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given
      them so many previous months of suspense and vexation.

      “And this,” said she, “is the end of all his friend’s anxious
      circumspection! of all his sister’s falsehood and contrivance!
      the happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!”

      In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with
      her father had been short and to the purpose.

      “Where is your sister?” said he hastily, as he opened the door.

      “With my mother up stairs. She will be down in a moment, I dare
      say.”

      He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good
      wishes and affection of a sister. Elizabeth honestly and heartily
      expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship. They
      shook hands with great cordiality; and then, till her sister came
      down, she had to listen to all he had to say of his own
      happiness, and of Jane’s perfections; and in spite of his being a
      lover, Elizabeth really believed all his expectations of felicity
      to be rationally founded, because they had for basis the
      excellent understanding, and super-excellent disposition of Jane,
      and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and
      himself.

      It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the
      satisfaction of Miss Bennet’s mind gave a glow of such sweet
      animation to her face, as made her look handsomer than ever.
      Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped her turn was coming soon.
      Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation
      in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked
      to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet
      joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how
      really happy he was.

      Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till
      their visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was
      gone, he turned to his daughter, and said:

      “Jane, I congratulate you. You will be a very happy woman.”

      Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his
      goodness.

      “You are a good girl;” he replied, “and I have great pleasure in
      thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of
      your doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means
      unlike. You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever
      be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and
      so generous, that you will always exceed your income.”

      “I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters
      would be unpardonable in _me_.”

      “Exceed their income! My dear Mr. Bennet,” cried his wife, “what
      are you talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and
      very likely more.” Then addressing her daughter, “Oh! my dear,
      dear Jane, I am so happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep
      all night. I knew how it would be. I always said it must be so,
      at last. I was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing! I
      remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into
      Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you
      should come together. Oh! he is the handsomest young man that
      ever was seen!”

      Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten. Jane was beyond competition
      her favourite child. At that moment, she cared for no other. Her
      younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects
      of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense.

      Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and
      Kitty begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.

      Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at
      Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always
      remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous
      neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given him an
      invitation to dinner which he thought himself obliged to accept.

      Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her
      sister; for while he was present, Jane had no attention to bestow
      on anyone else; but she found herself considerably useful to both
      of them in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur.
      In the absence of Jane, he always attached himself to Elizabeth,
      for the pleasure of talking of her; and when Bingley was gone,
      Jane constantly sought the same means of relief.

      “He has made me so happy,” said she, one evening, “by telling me
      that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I
      had not believed it possible.”

      “I suspected as much,” replied Elizabeth. “But how did he account
      for it?”

      “It must have been his sister’s doing. They were certainly no
      friends to his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at,
      since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many
      respects. But when they see, as I trust they will, that their
      brother is happy with me, they will learn to be contented, and we
      shall be on good terms again; though we can never be what we once
      were to each other.”

      “That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elizabeth, “that I
      ever heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see
      you again the dupe of Miss Bingley’s pretended regard.”

      “Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last
      November, he really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of
      _my_ being indifferent would have prevented his coming down
      again!”

      “He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of
      his modesty.”

      This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his
      diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good
      qualities. Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed
      the interference of his friend; for, though Jane had the most
      generous and forgiving heart in the world, she knew it was a
      circumstance which must prejudice her against him.

      “I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!”
      cried Jane. “Oh! Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and
      blessed above them all! If I could but see you as happy! If there
      were but such another man for you!”

      “If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy
      as you. Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can
      have your happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and,
      perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr.
      Collins in time.”

      The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be
      long a secret. Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs.
      Phillips, and she ventured, without any permission, to do the
      same by all her neighbours in Meryton.

      The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in
      the world, though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first
      run away, they had been generally proved to be marked out for
      misfortune.




Chapter 56

      One morning, about a week after Bingley’s engagement with Jane
      had been formed, as he and the females of the family were sitting
      together in the dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn
      to the window, by the sound of a carriage; and they perceived a
      chaise and four driving up the lawn. It was too early in the
      morning for visitors, and besides, the equipage did not answer to
      that of any of their neighbours. The horses were post; and
      neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded
      it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that
      somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet
      to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with
      him into the shrubbery. They both set off, and the conjectures of
      the remaining three continued, though with little satisfaction,
      till the door was thrown open and their visitor entered. It was
      Lady Catherine de Bourgh.

      They were of course all intending to be surprised; but their
      astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of
      Mrs. Bennet and Kitty, though she was perfectly unknown to them,
      even inferior to what Elizabeth felt.

      She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious,
      made no other reply to Elizabeth’s salutation than a slight
      inclination of the head, and sat down without saying a word.
      Elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother on her ladyship’s
      entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.

      Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of
      such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
      After sitting for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to
      Elizabeth,

      “I hope you are well, Miss Bennet. That lady, I suppose, is your
      mother.”

      Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.

      “And _that_ I suppose is one of your sisters.”

      “Yes, madam,” said Mrs. Bennet, delighted to speak to Lady
      Catherine. “She is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all
      is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds,
      walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part
      of the family.”

      “You have a very small park here,” returned Lady Catherine after
      a short silence.

      “It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but
      I assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas’s.”

      “This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening,
      in summer; the windows are full west.”

      Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner,
      and then added:

      “May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left
      Mr. and Mrs. Collins well.”

      “Yes, very well. I saw them the night before last.”

      Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her
      from Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her
      calling. But no letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.

      Mrs. Bennet, with great civility, begged her ladyship to take
      some refreshment; but Lady Catherine very resolutely, and not
      very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up,
      said to Elizabeth,

      “Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little
      wilderness on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a
      turn in it, if you will favour me with your company.”

      “Go, my dear,” cried her mother, “and show her ladyship about the
      different walks. I think she will be pleased with the hermitage.”

      Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol,
      attended her noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the
      hall, Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
      drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be
      decent looking rooms, walked on.

      Her carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that her
      waiting-woman was in it. They proceeded in silence along the
      gravel walk that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to
      make no effort for conversation with a woman who was now more
      than usually insolent and disagreeable.

      “How could I ever think her like her nephew?” said she, as she
      looked in her face.

      As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the
      following manner:—

      “You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of
      my journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell
      you why I come.”

      Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.

      “Indeed, you are mistaken, Madam. I have not been at all able to
      account for the honour of seeing you here.”

      “Miss Bennet,” replied her ladyship, in an angry tone, “you ought
      to know, that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere
      _you_ may choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so. My character
      has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in
      a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from
      it. A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago. I
      was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most
      advantageously married, but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet,
      would, in all likelihood, be soon afterwards united to my nephew,
      my own nephew, Mr. Darcy. Though I _know_ it must be a scandalous
      falsehood, though I would not injure him so much as to suppose
      the truth of it possible, I instantly resolved on setting off for
      this place, that I might make my sentiments known to you.”

      “If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elizabeth,
      colouring with astonishment and disdain, “I wonder you took the
      trouble of coming so far. What could your ladyship propose by
      it?”

      “At once to insist upon having such a report universally
      contradicted.”

      “Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,” said
      Elizabeth coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it; if,
      indeed, such a report is in existence.”

      “If! Do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been
      industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such
      a report is spread abroad?”

      “I never heard that it was.”

      “And can you likewise declare, that there is no _foundation_ for
      it?”

      “I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship.
      _You_ may ask questions which _I_ shall not choose to answer.”

      “This is not to be borne. Miss Bennet, I insist on being
      satisfied. Has he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?”

      “Your ladyship has declared it to be impossible.”

      “It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of
      his reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in a moment of
      infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to
      all his family. You may have drawn him in.”

      “If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.”

      “Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to
      such language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in
      the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.”

      “But you are not entitled to know _mine;_ nor will such behaviour
      as this, ever induce me to be explicit.”

      “Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the
      presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy
      is engaged to _my daughter_. Now what have you to say?”

      “Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose
      he will make an offer to me.”

      Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:

      “The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their
      infancy, they have been intended for each other. It was the
      favourite wish of _his_ mother, as well as of hers. While in
      their cradles, we planned the union: and now, at the moment when
      the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished in their
      marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of
      no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family! Do
      you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends? To his tacit
      engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of
      propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say that from his
      earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?”

      “Yes, and I had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there
      is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall
      certainly not be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt
      wished him to marry Miss de Bourgh. You both did as much as you
      could in planning the marriage. Its completion depended on
      others. If Mr. Darcy is neither by honour nor inclination
      confined to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice? And
      if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?”

      “Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it.
      Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by
      his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the
      inclinations of all. You will be censured, slighted, and
      despised, by everyone connected with him. Your alliance will be a
      disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us.”

      “These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth. “But the wife
      of Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness
      necessarily attached to her situation, that she could, upon the
      whole, have no cause to repine.”

      “Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of you! Is this your
      gratitude for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to
      me on that score? Let us sit down. You are to understand, Miss
      Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of
      carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from it. I have not
      been used to submit to any person’s whims. I have not been in the
      habit of brooking disappointment.”

      “_That_ will make your ladyship’s situation at present more
      pitiable; but it will have no effect on _me_.”

      “I will not be interrupted. Hear me in silence. My daughter and
      my nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the
      maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father’s,
      from respectable, honourable, and ancient—though
      untitled—families. Their fortune on both sides is splendid. They
      are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their
      respective houses; and what is to divide them? The upstart
      pretensions of a young woman without family, connections, or
      fortune. Is this to be endured! But it must not, shall not be. If
      you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit
      the sphere in which you have been brought up.”

      “In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as
      quitting that sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s
      daughter; so far we are equal.”

      “True. You _are_ a gentleman’s daughter. But who was your mother?
      Who are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of
      their condition.”

      “Whatever my connections may be,” said Elizabeth, “if your nephew
      does not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_.”

      “Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?”

      Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady
      Catherine, have answered this question, she could not but say,
      after a moment’s deliberation:

      “I am not.”

      Lady Catherine seemed pleased.

      “And will you promise me, never to enter into such an
      engagement?”

      “I will make no promise of the kind.”

      “Miss Bennet I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a
      more reasonable young woman. But do not deceive yourself into a
      belief that I will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have
      given me the assurance I require.”

      “And I certainly _never_ shall give it. I am not to be
      intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable. Your ladyship
      wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you
      the wished-for promise make _their_ marriage at all more
      probable? Supposing him to be attached to me, would _my_ refusing
      to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
      Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with which
      you have supported this extraordinary application have been as
      frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely
      mistaken my character, if you think I can be worked on by such
      persuasions as these. How far your nephew might approve of your
      interference in _his_ affairs, I cannot tell; but you have
      certainly no right to concern yourself in mine. I must beg,
      therefore, to be importuned no farther on the subject.”

      “Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the
      objections I have already urged, I have still another to add. I
      am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s
      infamous elopement. I know it all; that the young man’s marrying
      her was a patched-up business, at the expence of your father and
      uncles. And is _such_ a girl to be my nephew’s sister? Is _her_
      husband, who is the son of his late father’s steward, to be his
      brother? Heaven and earth!—of what are you thinking? Are the
      shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?”

      “You can _now_ have nothing further to say,” she resentfully
      answered. “You have insulted me in every possible method. I must
      beg to return to the house.”

      And she rose as she spoke. Lady Catherine rose also, and they
      turned back. Her ladyship was highly incensed.

      “You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my
      nephew! Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a
      connection with you must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?”

      “Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say. You know my
      sentiments.”

      “You are then resolved to have him?”

      “I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that
      manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness,
      without reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly
      unconnected with me.”

      “It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey
      the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to
      ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the
      contempt of the world.”

      “Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude,” replied Elizabeth,
      “have any possible claim on me, in the present instance. No
      principle of either would be violated by my marriage with Mr.
      Darcy. And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the
      indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his
      marrying me, it would not give me one moment’s concern—and the
      world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn.”

      “And this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very
      well. I shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Miss Bennet,
      that your ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I
      hoped to find you reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry
      my point.”

      In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the
      door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, “I
      take no leave of you, Miss Bennet. I send no compliments to your
      mother. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously
      displeased.”

      Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her
      ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it
      herself. She heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up
      stairs. Her mother impatiently met her at the door of the
      dressing-room, to ask why Lady Catherine would not come in again
      and rest herself.

      “She did not choose it,” said her daughter, “she would go.”

      “She is a very fine-looking woman! and her calling here was
      prodigiously civil! for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the
      Collinses were well. She is on her road somewhere, I dare say,
      and so, passing through Meryton, thought she might as well call
      on you. I suppose she had nothing particular to say to you,
      Lizzy?”

      Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here; for to
      acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.




Chapter 57

      The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw
      Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for
      many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly. Lady
      Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this
      journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her
      supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy. It was a rational scheme, to
      be sure! but from what the report of their engagement could
      originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine; till she
      recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley, and
      _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the
      expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to
      supply the idea. She had not herself forgotten to feel that the
      marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together.
      And her neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their
      communication with the Collinses, the report, she concluded, had
      reached Lady Catherine), had only set _that_ down as almost
      certain and immediate, which _she_ had looked forward to as
      possible at some future time.

      In revolving Lady Catherine’s expressions, however, she could not
      help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of
      her persisting in this interference. From what she had said of
      her resolution to prevent their marriage, it occurred to
      Elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew;
      and how he might take a similar representation of the evils
      attached to a connection with her, she dared not pronounce. She
      knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his
      dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he
      thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
      was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with
      _one_, whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own,
      his aunt would address him on his weakest side. With his notions
      of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to
      Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good
      sense and solid reasoning.

      If he had been wavering before as to what he should do, which had
      often seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a
      relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to
      be as happy as dignity unblemished could make him. In that case
      he would return no more. Lady Catherine might see him in her way
      through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to
      Netherfield must give way.

      “If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come
      to his friend within a few days,” she added, “I shall know how to
      understand it. I shall then give over every expectation, every
      wish of his constancy. If he is satisfied with only regretting
      me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall
      soon cease to regret him at all.”

      The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their
      visitor had been, was very great; but they obligingly satisfied
      it, with the same kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs.
      Bennet’s curiosity; and Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on
      the subject.

      The next morning, as she was going downstairs, she was met by her
      father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.

      “Lizzy,” said he, “I was going to look for you; come into my
      room.”

      She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had
      to tell her was heightened by the supposition of its being in
      some manner connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck
      her that it might be from Lady Catherine; and she anticipated
      with dismay all the consequent explanations.

      She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat
      down. He then said,

      “I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me
      exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to
      know its contents. I did not know before, that I had _two_
      daughters on the brink of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a
      very important conquest.”

      The colour now rushed into Elizabeth’s cheeks in the
      instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew,
      instead of the aunt; and she was undetermined whether most to be
      pleased that he explained himself at all, or offended that his
      letter was not rather addressed to herself; when her father
      continued:

      “You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such
      matters as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity, to
      discover the name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr.
      Collins.”

      “From Mr. Collins! and what can _he_ have to say?”

      “Something very much to the purpose of course. He begins with
      congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest
      daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the
      good-natured, gossiping Lucases. I shall not sport with your
      impatience, by reading what he says on that point. What relates
      to yourself, is as follows: ‘Having thus offered you the sincere
      congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on this happy event,
      let me now add a short hint on the subject of another; of which
      we have been advertised by the same authority. Your daughter
      Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet,
      after her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of
      her fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most
      illustrious personages in this land.’

      “Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this? ‘This young
      gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the
      heart of mortal can most desire,—splendid property, noble
      kindred, and extensive patronage. Yet in spite of all these
      temptations, let me warn my cousin Elizabeth, and yourself, of
      what evils you may incur by a precipitate closure with this
      gentleman’s proposals, which, of course, you will be inclined to
      take immediate advantage of.’

      “Have you any idea, Lizzy, who this gentleman is? But now it
      comes out:

      “‘My motive for cautioning you is as follows. We have reason to
      imagine that his aunt, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on
      the match with a friendly eye.’

      “_Mr. Darcy_, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_
      surprised you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man
      within the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have
      given the lie more effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy,
      who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who
      probably never looked at _you_ in his life! It is admirable!”

      Elizabeth tried to join in her father’s pleasantry, but could
      only force one most reluctant smile. Never had his wit been
      directed in a manner so little agreeable to her.

      “Are you not diverted?”

      “Oh! yes. Pray read on.”

      “‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her
      ladyship last night, she immediately, with her usual
      condescension, expressed what she felt on the occasion; when it
      became apparent, that on the score of some family objections on
      the part of my cousin, she would never give her consent to what
      she termed so disgraceful a match. I thought it my duty to give
      the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her
      noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
      hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’
      Mr. Collins moreover adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin
      Lydia’s sad business has been so well hushed up, and am only
      concerned that their living together before the marriage took
      place should be so generally known. I must not, however, neglect
      the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement
      at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as
      soon as they were married. It was an encouragement of vice; and
      had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should very strenuously
      have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them, as a
      Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their
      names to be mentioned in your hearing.’ _That_ is his notion of
      Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his
      dear Charlotte’s situation, and his expectation of a young
      olive-branch. But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it.
      You are not going to be _missish_, I hope, and pretend to be
      affronted at an idle report. For what do we live, but to make
      sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?”

      “Oh!” cried Elizabeth, “I am excessively diverted. But it is so
      strange!”

      “Yes—_that_ is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other
      man it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference,
      and _your_ pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd! Much
      as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins’s
      correspondence for any consideration. Nay, when I read a letter
      of his, I cannot help giving him the preference even over
      Wickham, much as I value the impudence and hypocrisy of my
      son-in-law. And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine about this
      report? Did she call to refuse her consent?”

      To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as
      it had been asked without the least suspicion, she was not
      distressed by his repeating it. Elizabeth had never been more at
      a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not. It was
      necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried. Her father
      had most cruelly mortified her, by what he said of Mr. Darcy’s
      indifference, and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want
      of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of his seeing too
      _little_, she might have fancied too _much_.




Chapter 58

      Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend,
      as Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do, he was able to
      bring Darcy with him to Longbourn before many days had passed
      after Lady Catherine’s visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and,
      before Mrs. Bennet had time to tell him of their having seen his
      aunt, of which her daughter sat in momentary dread, Bingley, who
      wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed their all walking out. It
      was agreed to. Mrs. Bennet was not in the habit of walking; Mary
      could never spare time; but the remaining five set off together.
      Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip
      them. They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were
      to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; Kitty
      was too much afraid of him to talk; Elizabeth was secretly
      forming a desperate resolution; and perhaps he might be doing the
      same.

      They walked towards the Lucases, because Kitty wished to call
      upon Maria; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a
      general concern, when Kitty left them she went boldly on with him
      alone. Now was the moment for her resolution to be executed, and,
      while her courage was high, she immediately said:

      “Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of
      giving relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be
      wounding yours. I can no longer help thanking you for your
      unexampled kindness to my poor sister. Ever since I have known
      it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully
      I feel it. Were it known to the rest of my family, I should not
      have merely my own gratitude to express.”

      “I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,” replied Darcy, in a tone of
      surprise and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what
      may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not
      think Mrs. Gardiner was so little to be trusted.”

      “You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first
      betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of
      course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me
      thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that
      generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble,
      and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering
      them.”

      “If you _will_ thank me,” he replied, “let it be for yourself
      alone. That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force
      to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to
      deny. But your _family_ owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I
      believe I thought only of _you_.”

      Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short
      pause, her companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with
      me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me
      so at once. _My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one
      word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.”

      Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and
      anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak; and
      immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand
      that her sentiments had undergone so material a change, since the
      period to which he alluded, as to make her receive with gratitude
      and pleasure his present assurances. The happiness which this
      reply produced, was such as he had probably never felt before;
      and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
      warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had
      Elizabeth been able to encounter his eye, she might have seen how
      well the expression of heartfelt delight, diffused over his face,
      became him; but, though she could not look, she could listen, and
      he told her of feelings, which, in proving of what importance she
      was to him, made his affection every moment more valuable.

      They walked on, without knowing in what direction. There was too
      much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any
      other objects. She soon learnt that they were indebted for their
      present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_
      call on him in her return through London, and there relate her
      journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of her
      conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on every
      expression of the latter which, in her ladyship’s apprehension,
      peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief
      that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that
      promise from her nephew which _she_ had refused to give. But,
      unluckily for her ladyship, its effect had been exactly
      contrariwise.

      “It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed
      myself to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be
      certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided
      against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine,
      frankly and openly.”

      Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, “Yes, you know
      enough of my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After
      abusing you so abominably to your face, I could have no scruple
      in abusing you to all your relations.”

      “What did you say of me, that I did not deserve? For, though your
      accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my
      behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It
      was unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.”

      “We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to
      that evening,” said Elizabeth. “The conduct of neither, if
      strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then, we
      have both, I hope, improved in civility.”

      “I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of
      what I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions
      during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months,
      inexpressibly painful to me. Your reproof, so well applied, I
      shall never forget: ‘had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike
      manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can scarcely
      conceive, how they have tortured me;—though it was some time, I
      confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.”

      “I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong
      an impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever
      felt in such a way.”

      “I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every
      proper feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I
      shall never forget, as you said that I could not have addressed
      you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me.”

      “Oh! do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not
      do at all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily
      ashamed of it.”

      Darcy mentioned his letter. “Did it,” said he, “did it soon make
      you think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit
      to its contents?”

      She explained what its effect on her had been, and how gradually
      all her former prejudices had been removed.

      “I knew,” said he, “that what I wrote must give you pain, but it
      was necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was
      one part especially, the opening of it, which I should dread your
      having the power of reading again. I can remember some
      expressions which might justly make you hate me.”

      “The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential
      to the preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason
      to think my opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I
      hope, quite so easily changed as that implies.”

      “When I wrote that letter,” replied Darcy, “I believed myself
      perfectly calm and cool, but I am since convinced that it was
      written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit.”

      “The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
      The adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The
      feelings of the person who wrote, and the person who received it,
      are now so widely different from what they were then, that every
      unpleasant circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten. You
      must learn some of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its
      remembrance gives you pleasure.”

      “I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. _Your_
      retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the
      contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is
      much better, of innocence. But with _me_, it is not so. Painful
      recollections will intrude which cannot, which ought not, to be
      repelled. I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice,
      though not in principle. As a child I was taught what was
      _right_, but I was not taught to correct my temper. I was given
      good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
      Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only _child_), I was
      spoilt by my parents, who, though good themselves (my father,
      particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable), allowed,
      encouraged, almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing; to
      care for none beyond my own family circle; to think meanly of all
      the rest of the world; to _wish_ at least to think meanly of
      their sense and worth compared with my own. Such I was, from
      eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but
      for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not owe you! You
      taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
      By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a doubt of
      my reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my
      pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.”

      “Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?”

      “Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you
      to be wishing, expecting my addresses.”

      “My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I
      assure you. I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might
      often lead me wrong. How you must have hated me after _that_
      evening?”

      “Hate you! I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began
      to take a proper direction.”

      “I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me, when we met
      at Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?”

      “No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise.”

      “Your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed
      by you. My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary
      politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive _more_
      than my due.”

      “My object _then_,” replied Darcy, “was to show you, by every
      civility in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the
      past; and I hoped to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill
      opinion, by letting you see that your reproofs had been attended
      to. How soon any other wishes introduced themselves I can hardly
      tell, but I believe in about half an hour after I had seen you.”

      He then told her of Georgiana’s delight in her acquaintance, and
      of her disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally
      leading to the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that
      his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her
      sister had been formed before he quitted the inn, and that his
      gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other
      struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.

      She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a
      subject to each, to be dwelt on farther.

      After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy
      to know anything about it, they found at last, on examining their
      watches, that it was time to be at home.

      “What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!” was a wonder which
      introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. Darcy was delighted
      with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest
      information of it.

      “I must ask whether you were surprised?” said Elizabeth.

      “Not at all. When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.”

      “That is to say, you had given your permission. I guessed as
      much.” And though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had
      been pretty much the case.

      “On the evening before my going to London,” said he, “I made a
      confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago.
      I told him of all that had occurred to make my former
      interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent. His surprise
      was great. He had never had the slightest suspicion. I told him,
      moreover, that I believed myself mistaken in supposing, as I had
      done, that your sister was indifferent to him; and as I could
      easily perceive that his attachment to her was unabated, I felt
      no doubt of their happiness together.”

      Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing
      his friend.

      “Did you speak from your own observation,” said she, “when you
      told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information
      last spring?”

      “From the former. I had narrowly observed her during the two
      visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her
      affection.”

      “And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate
      conviction to him.”

      “It did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
      prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case,
      but his reliance on mine made every thing easy. I was obliged to
      confess one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended
      him. I could not allow myself to conceal that your sister had
      been in town three months last winter, that I had known it, and
      purposely kept it from him. He was angry. But his anger, I am
      persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your
      sister’s sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me now.”

      Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most
      delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was
      invaluable; but she checked herself. She remembered that he had
      yet to learn to be laughed at, and it was rather too early to
      begin. In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course
      was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation
      till they reached the house. In the hall they parted.




Chapter 59

      “My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?” was a
      question which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as she
      entered their room, and from all the others when they sat down to
      table. She had only to say in reply, that they had wandered
      about, till she was beyond her own knowledge. She coloured as she
      spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion
      of the truth.

      The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
      The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged
      were silent. Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness
      overflows in mirth; and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather
      _knew_ that she was happy than _felt_ herself to be so; for,
      besides the immediate embarrassment, there were other evils
      before her. She anticipated what would be felt in the family when
      her situation became known; she was aware that no one liked him
      but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a _dislike_
      which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.

      At night she opened her heart to Jane. Though suspicion was very
      far from Miss Bennet’s general habits, she was absolutely
      incredulous here.

      “You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be!—engaged to Mr. Darcy! No,
      no, you shall not deceive me. I know it to be impossible.”

      “This is a wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on
      you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
      Yet, indeed, I am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He
      still loves me, and we are engaged.”

      Jane looked at her doubtingly. “Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know
      how much you dislike him.”

      “You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot.
      Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now. But in
      such cases as these, a good memory is unpardonable. This is the
      last time I shall ever remember it myself.”

      Miss Bennet still looked all amazement. Elizabeth again, and more
      seriously assured her of its truth.

      “Good Heaven! can it be really so! Yet now I must believe you,”
      cried Jane. “My dear, dear Lizzy, I would—I do congratulate
      you—but are you certain? forgive the question—are you quite
      certain that you can be happy with him?”

      “There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already,
      that we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you
      pleased, Jane? Shall you like to have such a brother?”

      “Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself
      more delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as
      impossible. And do you really love him quite well enough? Oh,
      Lizzy! do anything rather than marry without affection. Are you
      quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?”

      “Oh, yes! You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do,
      when I tell you all.”

      “What do you mean?”

      “Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I
      am afraid you will be angry.”

      “My dearest sister, now _be_ serious. I want to talk very
      seriously. Let me know every thing that I am to know, without
      delay. Will you tell me how long you have loved him?”

      “It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it
      began. But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his
      beautiful grounds at Pemberley.”

      Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the
      desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn
      assurances of attachment. When convinced on that article, Miss
      Bennet had nothing further to wish.

      “Now I am quite happy,” said she, “for you will be as happy as
      myself. I always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his
      love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as
      Bingley’s friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and
      yourself more dear to me. But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very
      reserved with me. How little did you tell me of what passed at
      Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know of it to another,
      not to you.”

      Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy. She had been
      unwilling to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own
      feelings had made her equally avoid the name of his friend. But
      now she would no longer conceal from her his share in Lydia’s
      marriage. All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in
      conversation.

      “Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the
      next morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here
      again with our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so
      tiresome as to be always coming here? I had no notion but he
      would go a-shooting, or something or other, and not disturb us
      with his company. What shall we do with him? Lizzy, you must walk
      out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley’s way.”

      Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal;
      yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him
      such an epithet.

      As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively,
      and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good
      information; and he soon afterwards said aloud, “Mrs. Bennet,
      have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way
      again to-day?”

      “I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty,” said Mrs. Bennet, “to
      walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and
      Mr. Darcy has never seen the view.”

      “It may do very well for the others,” replied Mr. Bingley; “but I
      am sure it will be too much for Kitty. Won’t it, Kitty?” Kitty
      owned that she had rather stay at home. Darcy professed a great
      curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently
      consented. As she went up stairs to get ready, Mrs. Bennet
      followed her, saying:

      “I am quite sorry, Lizzy, that you should be forced to have that
      disagreeable man all to yourself. But I hope you will not mind
      it: it is all for Jane’s sake, you know; and there is no occasion
      for talking to him, except just now and then. So, do not put
      yourself to inconvenience.”

      During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet’s consent
      should be asked in the course of the evening. Elizabeth reserved
      to herself the application for her mother’s. She could not
      determine how her mother would take it; sometimes doubting
      whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome
      her abhorrence of the man. But whether she were violently set
      against the match, or violently delighted with it, it was certain
      that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her
      sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the
      first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
      disapprobation.

      In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library,
      she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on
      seeing it was extreme. She did not fear her father’s opposition,
      but he was going to be made unhappy; and that it should be
      through her means—that _she_, his favourite child, should be
      distressing him by her choice, should be filling him with fears
      and regrets in disposing of her—was a wretched reflection, and
      she sat in misery till Mr. Darcy appeared again, when, looking at
      him, she was a little relieved by his smile. In a few minutes he
      approached the table where she was sitting with Kitty; and, while
      pretending to admire her work said in a whisper, “Go to your
      father, he wants you in the library.” She was gone directly.

      Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
      “Lizzy,” said he, “what are you doing? Are you out of your
      senses, to be accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?”

      How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been
      more reasonable, her expressions more moderate! It would have
      spared her from explanations and professions which it was
      exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she
      assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.

      “Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich,
      to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages
      than Jane. But will they make you happy?”

      “Have you any other objection,” said Elizabeth, “than your belief
      of my indifference?”

      “None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of
      man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.”

      “I do, I do like him,” she replied, with tears in her eyes, “I
      love him. Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly
      amiable. You do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain
      me by speaking of him in such terms.”

      “Lizzy,” said her father, “I have given him my consent. He is the
      kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything,
      which he condescended to ask. I now give it to _you_, if you are
      resolved on having him. But let me advise you to think better of
      it. I know your disposition, Lizzy. I know that you could be
      neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your
      husband; unless you looked up to him as a superior. Your lively
      talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal
      marriage. You could scarcely escape discredit and misery. My
      child, let me not have the grief of seeing _you_ unable to
      respect your partner in life. You know not what you are about.”

      Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her
      reply; and at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was
      really the object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change
      which her estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute
      certainty that his affection was not the work of a day, but had
      stood the test of many months’ suspense, and enumerating with
      energy all his good qualities, she did conquer her father’s
      incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.

      “Well, my dear,” said he, when she ceased speaking, “I have no
      more to say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not
      have parted with you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.”

      To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr.
      Darcy had voluntarily done for Lydia. He heard her with
      astonishment.

      “This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did every
      thing; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s
      debts, and got him his commission! So much the better. It will
      save me a world of trouble and economy. Had it been your uncle’s
      doing, I must and _would_ have paid him; but these violent young
      lovers carry every thing their own way. I shall offer to pay him
      to-morrow; he will rant and storm about his love for you, and
      there will be an end of the matter.”

      He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his
      reading Mr. Collins’s letter; and after laughing at her some
      time, allowed her at last to go—saying, as she quitted the room,
      “If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am
      quite at leisure.”

      Elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and,
      after half an hour’s quiet reflection in her own room, she was
      able to join the others with tolerable composure. Every thing was
      too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away;
      there was no longer anything material to be dreaded, and the
      comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time.

      When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she
      followed her, and made the important communication. Its effect
      was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat
      quite still, and unable to utter a syllable. Nor was it under
      many, many minutes that she could comprehend what she heard;
      though not in general backward to credit what was for the
      advantage of her family, or that came in the shape of a lover to
      any of them. She began at length to recover, to fidget about in
      her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.

      “Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy!
      Who would have thought it! And is it really true? Oh! my sweetest
      Lizzy! how rich and how great you will be! What pin-money, what
      jewels, what carriages you will have! Jane’s is nothing to
      it—nothing at all. I am so pleased—so happy. Such a charming
      man!—so handsome! so tall!—Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologise for
      my having disliked him so much before. I hope he will overlook
      it. Dear, dear Lizzy. A house in town! Every thing that is
      charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year! Oh, Lord!
      What will become of me. I shall go distracted.”

      This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be
      doubted: and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard
      only by herself, soon went away. But before she had been three
      minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.

      “My dearest child,” she cried, “I can think of nothing else! Ten
      thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a Lord!
      And a special licence. You must and shall be married by a special
      licence. But my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is
      particularly fond of, that I may have it to-morrow.”

      This was a sad omen of what her mother’s behaviour to the
      gentleman himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in
      the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of
      her relations’ consent, there was still something to be wished
      for. But the morrow passed off much better than she expected; for
      Mrs. Bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law
      that she ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in her power
      to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his
      opinion.

      Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains
      to get acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that
      he was rising every hour in his esteem.

      “I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said he. “Wickham,
      perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband
      quite as well as Jane’s.”




Chapter 60

      Elizabeth’s spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted
      Mr. Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her.
      “How could you begin?” said she. “I can comprehend your going on
      charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could
      set you off in the first place?”

      “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the
      words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in
      the middle before I knew that I _had_ begun.”

      “My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners—my
      behaviour to _you_ was at least always bordering on the uncivil,
      and I never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain
      than not. Now be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”

      “For the liveliness of your mind, I did.”

      “You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little
      less. The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference,
      of officious attention. You were disgusted with the women who
      were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for _your_
      approbation alone. I roused, and interested you, because I was so
      unlike _them_. Had you not been really amiable, you would have
      hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you took to disguise
      yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and in your
      heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
      courted you. There—I have saved you the trouble of accounting for
      it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it
      perfectly reasonable. To be sure, you knew no actual good of
      me—but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love.”

      “Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane while
      she was ill at Netherfield?”

      “Dearest Jane! who could have done less for her? But make a
      virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your
      protection, and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible;
      and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing
      and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin
      directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the
      point at last. What made you so shy of me, when you first called,
      and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you called, did
      you look as if you did not care about me?”

      “Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no
      encouragement.”

      “But I was embarrassed.”

      “And so was I.”

      “You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.”

      “A man who had felt less, might.”

      “How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give,
      and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it! But I wonder
      how long you _would_ have gone on, if you had been left to
      yourself. I wonder when you _would_ have spoken, if I had not
      asked you! My resolution of thanking you for your kindness to
      Lydia had certainly great effect. _Too much_, I am afraid; for
      what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach
      of promise? for I ought not to have mentioned the subject. This
      will never do.”

      “You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly
      fair. Lady Catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us
      were the means of removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for
      my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your
      gratitude. I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of
      yours. My aunt’s intelligence had given me hope, and I was
      determined at once to know every thing.”

      “Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her
      happy, for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come
      down to Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and
      be embarrassed? or had you intended any more serious
      consequence?”

      “My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could,
      whether I might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or
      what I avowed to myself, was to see whether your sister were
      still partial to Bingley, and if she were, to make the confession
      to him which I have since made.”

      “Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what
      is to befall her?”

      “I am more likely to want  time than courage, Elizabeth. But it
      ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it
      shall be done directly.”

      “And if I had not a letter to write myself, I might sit by you
      and admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady
      once did. But I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer
      neglected.”

      From an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with Mr.
      Darcy had been over-rated, Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs.
      Gardiner’s long letter; but now, having _that_ to communicate
      which she knew would be most welcome, she was almost ashamed to
      find that her uncle and aunt had already lost three days of
      happiness, and immediately wrote as follows:

      “I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to
      have done, for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of
      particulars; but to say the truth, I was too cross to write. You
      supposed more than really existed. But _now_ suppose as much as
      you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your
      imagination in every possible flight which the subject will
      afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot
      greatly err. You must write again very soon, and praise him a
      great deal more than you did in your last. I thank you, again and
      again, for not going to the Lakes. How could I be so silly as to
      wish it! Your idea of the ponies is delightful. We will go round
      the Park every day. I am the happiest creature in the world.
      Perhaps other people have said so before, but not one with such
      justice. I am happier even than Jane; she only smiles, I laugh.
      Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that he can spare
      from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas. Yours,
      etc.”

      Mr. Darcy’s letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style;
      and still different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr.
      Collins, in reply to his last.

      “Dear Sir,
      “I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will
      soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as
      you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has
      more to give.

      “Yours sincerely, etc.”

      Miss Bingley’s congratulations to her brother, on his approaching
      marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere. She wrote
      even to Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat
      all her former professions of regard. Jane was not deceived, but
      she was affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could
      not help writing her a much kinder answer than she knew was
      deserved.

      The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar
      information, was as sincere as her brother’s in sending it. Four
      sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and
      all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.

      Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any
      congratulations to Elizabeth from his wife, the Longbourn family
      heard that the Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge. The
      reason of this sudden removal was soon evident. Lady Catherine
      had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her
      nephew’s letter, that Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match,
      was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over. At such a
      moment, the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to
      Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must
      sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she saw Mr.
      Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her
      husband. He bore it, however, with admirable calmness. He could
      even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on
      carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed
      his hopes of their all meeting frequently at St. James’s, with
      very decent composure. If he did shrug his shoulders, it was not
      till Sir William was out of sight.

      Mrs. Phillips’s vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax
      on his forbearance; and though Mrs. Phillips, as well as her
      sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the
      familiarity which Bingley’s good humour encouraged, yet, whenever
      she _did_ speak, she must be vulgar. Nor was her respect for him,
      though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more
      elegant. Elizabeth did all she could to shield him from the
      frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to keep him to
      herself, and to those of her family with whom he might converse
      without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings
      arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of
      its pleasure, it added to the hope of the future; and she looked
      forward with delight to the time when they should be removed from
      society so little pleasing to either, to all the comfort and
      elegance of their family party at Pemberley.




Chapter 61

      Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs.
      Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters. With what
      delighted pride she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked
      of Mrs. Darcy, may be guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake
      of her family, that the accomplishment of her earnest desire in
      the establishment of so many of her children produced so happy an
      effect as to make her a sensible, amiable, well-informed woman
      for the rest of her life; though perhaps it was lucky for her
      husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so
      unusual a form, that she still was occasionally nervous and
      invariably silly.

      Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection
      for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
      He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least
      expected.

      Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth.
      So near a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not
      desirable even to _his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart.
      The darling wish of his sisters was then gratified; he bought an
      estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire, and Jane and
      Elizabeth, in addition to every other source of happiness, were
      within thirty miles of each other.

      Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her
      time with her two elder sisters. In society so superior to what
      she had generally known, her improvement was great. She was not
      of so ungovernable a temper as Lydia; and, removed from the
      influence of Lydia’s example, she became, by proper attention and
      management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid. From
      the further disadvantage of Lydia’s society she was of course
      carefully kept, and though Mrs. Wickham frequently invited her to
      come and stay with her, with the promise of balls and young men,
      her father would never consent to her going.

      Mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was
      necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs.
      Bennet’s being quite unable to sit alone. Mary was obliged to mix
      more with the world, but she could still moralize over every
      morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons
      between her sisters’ beauty and her own, it was suspected by her
      father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance.

      As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution
      from the marriage of her sisters. He bore with philosophy the
      conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with
      whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown
      to her; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope
      that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune. The
      congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her
      marriage, explained to her that, by his wife at least, if not by
      himself, such a hope was cherished. The letter was to this
      effect:

      “My dear Lizzy,
      “I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half as well as I do my
      dear Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to
      have you so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope
      you will think of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at
      court very much, and I do not think we shall have quite money
      enough to live upon without some help. Any place would do, of
      about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to
      Mr. Darcy about it, if you had rather not.

      “Yours, etc.”

      As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, she
      endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every entreaty and
      expectation of the kind. Such relief, however, as it was in her
      power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy
      in her own private expences, she frequently sent them. It had
      always been evident to her that such an income as theirs, under
      the direction of two persons so extravagant in their wants, and
      heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to their
      support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either Jane or
      herself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance
      towards discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even
      when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was
      unsettled in the extreme. They were always moving from place to
      place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more
      than they ought. His affection for her soon sunk into
      indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and in spite of her
      youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to reputation
      which her marriage had given her.

      Though Darcy could never receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for
      Elizabeth’s sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
      Lydia was occasionally a visitor there, when her husband was gone
      to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they
      both of them frequently staid so long, that even Bingley’s good
      humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to _talk_ of
      giving them a hint to be gone.

      Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s marriage; but
      as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at
      Pemberley, she dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of
      Georgiana, almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid
      off every arrear of civility to Elizabeth.

      Pemberley was now Georgiana’s home; and the attachment of the
      sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see. They were able
      to love each other even as well as they intended. Georgiana had
      the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first
      she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her
      lively, sportive, manner of talking to her brother. He, who had
      always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her
      affection, she now saw the object of open pleasantry. Her mind
      received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way. By
      Elizabeth’s instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman
      may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not
      always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than
      himself.

      Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her
      nephew; and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her
      character in her reply to the letter which announced its
      arrangement, she sent him language so very abusive, especially of
      Elizabeth, that for some time all intercourse was at an end. But
      at length, by Elizabeth’s persuasion, he was prevailed on to
      overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation; and, after a
      little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her resentment
      gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity to
      see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait
      on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods
      had received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress,
      but the visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.

      With the Gardiners, they were always on the most intimate terms.
      Darcy, as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were
      both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons
      who, by bringing her into Derbyshire, had been the means of
      uniting them.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRIDE AND PREJUDICE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dracula, by Bram Stoker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dracula

Author: Bram Stoker

Release Date: October, 1995 [eBook #345]
[Most recently updated: March 12, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRACULA ***




                                DRACULA





                                DRACULA

                                  _by_

                              Bram Stoker

                        [Illustration: colophon]

                                NEW YORK

                            GROSSET & DUNLAP

                              _Publishers_

      Copyright, 1897, in the United States of America, according
                   to Act of Congress, by Bram Stoker

                        [_All rights reserved._]

                      PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES
                                   AT
               THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N.Y.




                                   TO

                             MY DEAR FRIEND

                               HOMMY-BEG




Contents

CHAPTER I. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER II. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER III. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER IV. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER V. Letters—Lucy and Mina
CHAPTER VI. Mina Murray’s Journal
CHAPTER VII. Cutting from “The Dailygraph,” 8 August
CHAPTER VIII. Mina Murray’s Journal
CHAPTER IX. Mina Murray’s Journal
CHAPTER X. Mina Murray’s Journal
CHAPTER XI. Lucy Westenra’s Diary
CHAPTER XII. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XIII. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XIV. Mina Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XV. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XVI. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XVII. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XVIII. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XIX. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XX. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XXI. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XXII. Jonathan Harker’s Journal
CHAPTER XXIII. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XXIV. Dr. Seward’s Phonograph Diary, spoken by Van Helsing
CHAPTER XXV. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XXVI. Dr. Seward’s Diary
CHAPTER XXVII. Mina Harker’s Journal




DRACULA




CHAPTER I

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL

(_Kept in shorthand._)


_3 May. Bistritz._--Left Munich at 8:35 P. M., on 1st May, arriving at
Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was an
hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I
got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the
streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
late and would start as near the correct time as possible. The
impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the
East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which is
here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish
rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or
rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was
very good but thirsty. (_Mem._, get recipe for Mina.) I asked the
waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a
national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the
Carpathians. I found my smattering of German very useful here; indeed, I
don't know how I should be able to get on without it.

Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited the
British Museum, and made search among the books and maps in the library
regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that some foreknowledge of the
country could hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a
nobleman of that country. I find that the district he named is in the
extreme east of the country, just on the borders of three states,
Transylvania, Moldavia and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian
mountains; one of the wildest and least known portions of Europe. I was
not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the
Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare
with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post
town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place. I shall enter
here some of my notes, as they may refresh my memory when I talk over my
travels with Mina.

In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct nationalities:
Saxons in the South, and mixed with them the Wallachs, who are the
descendants of the Dacians; Magyars in the West, and Szekelys in the
East and North. I am going among the latter, who claim to be descended
from Attila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Magyars conquered
the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns settled in it. I
read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the
horseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it were the centre of some sort of
imaginative whirlpool; if so my stay may be very interesting. (_Mem._, I
must ask the Count all about them.)

I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable enough, for I had
all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howling all night under my
window, which may have had something to do with it; or it may have been
the paprika, for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe, and was
still thirsty. Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the continuous
knocking at my door, so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then.
I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of porridge of maize flour
which they said was "mamaliga," and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat, a
very excellent dish, which they call "impletata." (_Mem._, get recipe
for this also.) I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started a little
before eight, or rather it ought to have done so, for after rushing to
the station at 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour
before we began to move. It seems to me that the further east you go the
more unpunctual are the trains. What ought they to be in China?

All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of
beauty of every kind. Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on the
top of steep hills such as we see in old missals; sometimes we ran by
rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side
of them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of water, and
running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear. At every
station there were groups of people, sometimes crowds, and in all sorts
of attire. Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I
saw coming through France and Germany, with short jackets and round hats
and home-made trousers; but others were very picturesque. The women
looked pretty, except when you got near them, but they were very clumsy
about the waist. They had all full white sleeves of some kind or other,
and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of something
fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet, but of course there
were petticoats under them. The strangest figures we saw were the
Slovaks, who were more barbarian than the rest, with their big cow-boy
hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers, white linen shirts, and enormous
heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all studded over with brass
nails. They wore high boots, with their trousers tucked into them, and
had long black hair and heavy black moustaches. They are very
picturesque, but do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would be
set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands. They are,
however, I am told, very harmless and rather wanting in natural
self-assertion.

It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz, which is a
very interesting old place. Being practically on the frontier--for the
Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormy
existence, and it certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series
of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five separate
occasions. At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent
a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war
proper being assisted by famine and disease.

Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I
found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of
course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country. I was
evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced a
cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--white
undergarment with long double apron, front, and back, of coloured stuff
fitting almost too tight for modesty. When I came close she bowed and
said, "The Herr Englishman?" "Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker." She
smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirt-sleeves,
who had followed her to the door. He went, but immediately returned with
a letter:--

     "My Friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxiously expecting
     you. Sleep well to-night. At three to-morrow the diligence will
     start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you. At the Borgo
     Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me. I trust
     that your journey from London has been a happy one, and that you
     will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.

"Your friend,

"DRACULA."


_4 May._--I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count,
directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on
making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, and
pretended that he could not understand my German. This could not be
true, because up to then he had understood it perfectly; at least, he
answered my questions exactly as if he did. He and his wife, the old
lady who had received me, looked at each other in a frightened sort of
way. He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter, and that
was all he knew. When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could
tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves,
and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak
further. It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask
any one else, for it was all very mysterious and not by any means
comforting.

Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said in a
very hysterical way:

"Must you go? Oh! young Herr, must you go?" She was in such an excited
state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew, and
mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all. I
was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her
that I must go at once, and that I was engaged on important business,
she asked again:

"Do you know what day it is?" I answered that it was the fourth of May.
She shook her head as she said again:

"Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what day it is?" On
my saying that I did not understand, she went on:

"It is the eve of St. George's Day. Do you not know that to-night, when
the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world will have
full sway? Do you know where you are going, and what you are going to?"
She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but
without effect. Finally she went down on her knees and implored me not
to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting. It was all very
ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable. However, there was business
to be done, and I could allow nothing to interfere with it. I therefore
tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that I thanked
her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must go. She then rose and
dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix from her neck offered it to me. I
did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman, I have been
taught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous, and yet it
seemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in such a
state of mind. She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the
rosary round my neck, and said, "For your mother's sake," and went out
of the room. I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting
for the coach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still
round my neck. Whether it is the old lady's fear, or the many ghostly
traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I
am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual. If this book should
ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring my good-bye. Here comes the
coach!

       *       *       *       *       *

_5 May. The Castle._--The grey of the morning has passed, and the sun is
high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether with trees or
hills I know not, for it is so far off that big things and little are
mixed. I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake,
naturally I write till sleep comes. There are many odd things to put
down, and, lest who reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I
left Bistritz, let me put down my dinner exactly. I dined on what they
called "robber steak"--bits of bacon, onion, and beef, seasoned with red
pepper, and strung on sticks and roasted over the fire, in the simple
style of the London cat's meat! The wine was Golden Mediasch, which
produces a queer sting on the tongue, which is, however, not
disagreeable. I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.

When I got on the coach the driver had not taken his seat, and I saw him
talking with the landlady. They were evidently talking of me, for every
now and then they looked at me, and some of the people who were sitting
on the bench outside the door--which they call by a name meaning
"word-bearer"--came and listened, and then looked at me, most of them
pityingly. I could hear a lot of words often repeated, queer words, for
there were many nationalities in the crowd; so I quietly got my polyglot
dictionary from my bag and looked them out. I must say they were not
cheering to me, for amongst them were "Ordog"--Satan, "pokol"--hell,
"stregoica"--witch, "vrolok" and "vlkoslak"--both of which mean the same
thing, one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is
either were-wolf or vampire. (_Mem._, I must ask the Count about these
superstitions)

When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this time
swelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and
pointed two fingers towards me. With some difficulty I got a
fellow-passenger to tell me what they meant; he would not answer at
first, but on learning that I was English, he explained that it was a
charm or guard against the evil eye. This was not very pleasant for me,
just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man; but every one
seemed so kind-hearted, and so sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I
could not but be touched. I shall never forget the last glimpse which I
had of the inn-yard and its crowd of picturesque figures, all crossing
themselves, as they stood round the wide archway, with its background of
rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the
centre of the yard. Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered
the whole front of the box-seat--"gotza" they call them--cracked his big
whip over his four small horses, which ran abreast, and we set off on
our journey.

I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the
scene as we drove along, although had I known the language, or rather
languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I might not have
been able to throw them off so easily. Before us lay a green sloping
land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep hills, crowned
with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blank gable end to the
road. There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom--apple,
plum, pear, cherry; and as we drove by I could see the green grass under
the trees spangled with the fallen petals. In and out amongst these
green hills of what they call here the "Mittel Land" ran the road,
losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve, or was shut out by the
straggling ends of pine woods, which here and there ran down the
hillsides like tongues of flame. The road was rugged, but still we
seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste. I could not understand then
what the haste meant, but the driver was evidently bent on losing no
time in reaching Borgo Prund. I was told that this road is in summertime
excellent, but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter
snows. In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in
the Carpathians, for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept
in too good order. Of old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the
Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops,
and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point.

Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes
of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves. Right
and left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full upon
them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range,
deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and brown where
grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective of jagged rock and
pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the distance, where
the snowy peaks rose grandly. Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the
mountains, through which, as the sun began to sink, we saw now and again
the white gleam of falling water. One of my companions touched my arm as
we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty, snow-covered
peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on our serpentine way, to
be right before us:--

"Look! Isten szek!"--"God's seat!"--and he crossed himself reverently.

As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lower behind
us, the shadows of the evening began to creep round us. This was
emphasised by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the
sunset, and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink. Here and there
we passed Cszeks and Slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but I noticed
that goitre was painfully prevalent. By the roadside were many crosses,
and as we swept by, my companions all crossed themselves. Here and there
was a peasant man or woman kneeling before a shrine, who did not even
turn round as we approached, but seemed in the self-surrender of
devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world. There were
many things new to me: for instance, hay-ricks in the trees, and here
and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch, their white stems
shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves. Now and
again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary peasant's cart--with its
long, snake-like vertebra, calculated to suit the inequalities of the
road. On this were sure to be seated quite a group of home-coming
peasants, the Cszeks with their white, and the Slovaks with their
coloured, sheepskins, the latter carrying lance-fashion their long
staves, with axe at end. As the evening fell it began to get very cold,
and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one dark mistiness the
gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine, though in the valleys which
ran deep between the spurs of the hills, as we ascended through the
Pass, the dark firs stood out here and there against the background of
late-lying snow. Sometimes, as the road was cut through the pine woods
that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon us, great masses of
greyness, which here and there bestrewed the trees, produced a
peculiarly weird and solemn effect, which carried on the thoughts and
grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset
threw into strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the
Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys. Sometimes the
hills were so steep that, despite our driver's haste, the horses could
only go slowly. I wished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home,
but the driver would not hear of it. "No, no," he said; "you must not
walk here; the dogs are too fierce"; and then he added, with what he
evidently meant for grim pleasantry--for he looked round to catch the
approving smile of the rest--"and you may have enough of such matters
before you go to sleep." The only stop he would make was a moment's
pause to light his lamps.

When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the
passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as
though urging him to further speed. He lashed the horses unmercifully
with his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on
to further exertions. Then through the darkness I could see a sort of
patch of grey light ahead of us, as though there were a cleft in the
hills. The excitement of the passengers grew greater; the crazy coach
rocked on its great leather springs, and swayed like a boat tossed on a
stormy sea. I had to hold on. The road grew more level, and we appeared
to fly along. Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each
side and to frown down upon us; we were entering on the Borgo Pass. One
by one several of the passengers offered me gifts, which they pressed
upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial; these were
certainly of an odd and varied kind, but each was given in simple good
faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing, and that strange mixture of
fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at
Bistritz--the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye.
Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned forward, and on each side the
passengers, craning over the edge of the coach, peered eagerly into the
darkness. It was evident that something very exciting was either
happening or expected, but though I asked each passenger, no one would
give me the slightest explanation. This state of excitement kept on for
some little time; and at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on
the eastern side. There were dark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the
air the heavy, oppressive sense of thunder. It seemed as though the
mountain range had separated two atmospheres, and that now we had got
into the thunderous one. I was now myself looking out for the conveyance
which was to take me to the Count. Each moment I expected to see the
glare of lamps through the blackness; but all was dark. The only light
was the flickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from our
hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud. We could see now the sandy
road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock
my own disappointment. I was already thinking what I had best do, when
the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others something which I
could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone; I
thought it was "An hour less than the time." Then turning to me, he said
in German worse than my own:--

"There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected after all. He will
now come on to Bukovina, and return to-morrow or the next day; better
the next day." Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and
snort and plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold them up. Then,
amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing
of themselves, a calèche, with four horses, drove up behind us, overtook
us, and drew up beside the coach. I could see from the flash of our
lamps, as the rays fell on them, that the horses were coal-black and
splendid animals. They were driven by a tall man, with a long brown
beard and a great black hat, which seemed to hide his face from us. I
could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes, which seemed red
in the lamplight, as he turned to us. He said to the driver:--

"You are early to-night, my friend." The man stammered in reply:--

"The English Herr was in a hurry," to which the stranger replied:--

"That is why, I suppose, you wished him to go on to Bukovina. You cannot
deceive me, my friend; I know too much, and my horses are swift." As he
spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth, with
very red lips and sharp-looking teeth, as white as ivory. One of my
companions whispered to another the line from Burger's "Lenore":--

    "Denn die Todten reiten schnell"--
    ("For the dead travel fast.")

The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with a
gleaming smile. The passenger turned his face away, at the same time
putting out his two fingers and crossing himself. "Give me the Herr's
luggage," said the driver; and with exceeding alacrity my bags were
handed out and put in the calèche. Then I descended from the side of the
coach, as the calèche was close alongside, the driver helping me with a
hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel; his strength must have been
prodigious. Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we
swept into the darkness of the Pass. As I looked back I saw the steam
from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps, and projected
against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves. Then
the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses, and off they swept
on their way to Bukovina. As they sank into the darkness I felt a
strange chill, and a lonely feeling came over me; but a cloak was thrown
over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and the driver said in
excellent German:--

"The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count bade me take all
care of you. There is a flask of slivovitz (the plum brandy of the
country) underneath the seat, if you should require it." I did not take
any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same. I felt a
little strangely, and not a little frightened. I think had there been
any alternative I should have taken it, instead of prosecuting that
unknown night journey. The carriage went at a hard pace straight along,
then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road. It
seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground
again; and so I took note of some salient point, and found that this was
so. I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant, but
I really feared to do so, for I thought that, placed as I was, any
protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to
delay. By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was
passing, I struck a match, and by its flame looked at my watch; it was
within a few minutes of midnight. This gave me a sort of shock, for I
suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my
recent experiences. I waited with a sick feeling of suspense.

Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road--a
long, agonised wailing, as if from fear. The sound was taken up by
another dog, and then another and another, till, borne on the wind which
now sighed softly through the Pass, a wild howling began, which seemed
to come from all over the country, as far as the imagination could grasp
it through the gloom of the night. At the first howl the horses began to
strain and rear, but the driver spoke to them soothingly, and they
quieted down, but shivered and sweated as though after a runaway from
sudden fright. Then, far off in the distance, from the mountains on each
side of us began a louder and a sharper howling--that of wolves--which
affected both the horses and myself in the same way--for I was minded to
jump from the calèche and run, whilst they reared again and plunged
madly, so that the driver had to use all his great strength to keep them
from bolting. In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accustomed to
the sound, and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able
to descend and to stand before them. He petted and soothed them, and
whispered something in their ears, as I have heard of horse-tamers
doing, and with extraordinary effect, for under his caresses they became
quite manageable again, though they still trembled. The driver again
took his seat, and shaking his reins, started off at a great pace. This
time, after going to the far side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a
narrow roadway which ran sharply to the right.

Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places arched right over the
roadway till we passed as through a tunnel; and again great frowning
rocks guarded us boldly on either side. Though we were in shelter, we
could hear the rising wind, for it moaned and whistled through the
rocks, and the branches of the trees crashed together as we swept along.
It grew colder and colder still, and fine, powdery snow began to fall,
so that soon we and all around us were covered with a white blanket. The
keen wind still carried the howling of the dogs, though this grew
fainter as we went on our way. The baying of the wolves sounded nearer
and nearer, as though they were closing round on us from every side. I
grew dreadfully afraid, and the horses shared my fear. The driver,
however, was not in the least disturbed; he kept turning his head to
left and right, but I could not see anything through the darkness.

Suddenly, away on our left, I saw a faint flickering blue flame. The
driver saw it at the same moment; he at once checked the horses, and,
jumping to the ground, disappeared into the darkness. I did not know
what to do, the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer; but while
I wondered the driver suddenly appeared again, and without a word took
his seat, and we resumed our journey. I think I must have fallen asleep
and kept dreaming of the incident, for it seemed to be repeated
endlessly, and now looking back, it is like a sort of awful nightmare.
Once the flame appeared so near the road, that even in the darkness
around us I could watch the driver's motions. He went rapidly to where
the blue flame arose--it must have been very faint, for it did not seem
to illumine the place around it at all--and gathering a few stones,
formed them into some device. Once there appeared a strange optical
effect: when he stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it,
for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same. This startled me, but
as the effect was only momentary, I took it that my eyes deceived me
straining through the darkness. Then for a time there were no blue
flames, and we sped onwards through the gloom, with the howling of the
wolves around us, as though they were following in a moving circle.

At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than he
had yet gone, and during his absence, the horses began to tremble worse
than ever and to snort and scream with fright. I could not see any cause
for it, for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether; but just
then the moon, sailing through the black clouds, appeared behind the
jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by its light I saw
around us a ring of wolves, with white teeth and lolling red tongues,
with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair. They were a hundred times more
terrible in the grim silence which held them than even when they howled.
For myself, I felt a sort of paralysis of fear. It is only when a man
feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand
their true import.

All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had
some peculiar effect on them. The horses jumped about and reared, and
looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to see;
but the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side; and they
had perforce to remain within it. I called to the coachman to come, for
it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break out through the
ring and to aid his approach. I shouted and beat the side of the
calèche, hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from that side, so as
to give him a chance of reaching the trap. How he came there, I know
not, but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious command, and
looking towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway. As he swept his
long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle, the wolves
fell back and back further still. Just then a heavy cloud passed across
the face of the moon, so that we were again in darkness.

When I could see again the driver was climbing into the calèche, and the
wolves had disappeared. This was all so strange and uncanny that a
dreadful fear came upon me, and I was afraid to speak or move. The time
seemed interminable as we swept on our way, now in almost complete
darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon. We kept on
ascending, with occasional periods of quick descent, but in the main
always ascending. Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact that the
driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a
vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows came no ray of light,
and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the moonlit
sky.




CHAPTER II

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL--_continued_


_5 May._--I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had been fully
awake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place. In
the gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size, and as several dark
ways led from it under great round arches, it perhaps seemed bigger than
it really is. I have not yet been able to see it by daylight.

When the calèche stopped, the driver jumped down and held out his hand
to assist me to alight. Again I could not but notice his prodigious
strength. His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could have
crushed mine if he had chosen. Then he took out my traps, and placed
them on the ground beside me as I stood close to a great door, old and
studded with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway of
massive stone. I could see even in the dim light that the stone was
massively carved, but that the carving had been much worn by time and
weather. As I stood, the driver jumped again into his seat and shook the
reins; the horses started forward, and trap and all disappeared down one
of the dark openings.

I stood in silence where I was, for I did not know what to do. Of bell
or knocker there was no sign; through these frowning walls and dark
window openings it was not likely that my voice could penetrate. The
time I waited seemed endless, and I felt doubts and fears crowding upon
me. What sort of place had I come to, and among what kind of people?
What sort of grim adventure was it on which I had embarked? Was this a
customary incident in the life of a solicitor's clerk sent out to
explain the purchase of a London estate to a foreigner? Solicitor's
clerk! Mina would not like that. Solicitor--for just before leaving
London I got word that my examination was successful; and I am now a
full-blown solicitor! I began to rub my eyes and pinch myself to see if
I were awake. It all seemed like a horrible nightmare to me, and I
expected that I should suddenly awake, and find myself at home, with
the dawn struggling in through the windows, as I had now and again felt
in the morning after a day of overwork. But my flesh answered the
pinching test, and my eyes were not to be deceived. I was indeed awake
and among the Carpathians. All I could do now was to be patient, and to
wait the coming of the morning.

Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy step approaching
behind the great door, and saw through the chinks the gleam of a coming
light. Then there was the sound of rattling chains and the clanking of
massive bolts drawn back. A key was turned with the loud grating noise
of long disuse, and the great door swung back.

Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a long white
moustache, and clad in black from head to foot, without a single speck
of colour about him anywhere. He held in his hand an antique silver
lamp, in which the flame burned without chimney or globe of any kind,
throwing long quivering shadows as it flickered in the draught of the
open door. The old man motioned me in with his right hand with a courtly
gesture, saying in excellent English, but with a strange intonation:--

"Welcome to my house! Enter freely and of your own will!" He made no
motion of stepping to meet me, but stood like a statue, as though his
gesture of welcome had fixed him into stone. The instant, however, that
I had stepped over the threshold, he moved impulsively forward, and
holding out his hand grasped mine with a strength which made me wince,
an effect which was not lessened by the fact that it seemed as cold as
ice--more like the hand of a dead than a living man. Again he said:--

"Welcome to my house. Come freely. Go safely; and leave something of the
happiness you bring!" The strength of the handshake was so much akin to
that which I had noticed in the driver, whose face I had not seen, that
for a moment I doubted if it were not the same person to whom I was
speaking; so to make sure, I said interrogatively:--

"Count Dracula?" He bowed in a courtly way as he replied:--

"I am Dracula; and I bid you welcome, Mr. Harker, to my house. Come in;
the night air is chill, and you must need to eat and rest." As he was
speaking, he put the lamp on a bracket on the wall, and stepping out,
took my luggage; he had carried it in before I could forestall him. I
protested but he insisted:--

"Nay, sir, you are my guest. It is late, and my people are not
available. Let me see to your comfort myself." He insisted on carrying
my traps along the passage, and then up a great winding stair, and
along another great passage, on whose stone floor our steps rang
heavily. At the end of this he threw open a heavy door, and I rejoiced
to see within a well-lit room in which a table was spread for supper,
and on whose mighty hearth a great fire of logs, freshly replenished,
flamed and flared.

The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the door, and crossing
the room, opened another door, which led into a small octagonal room lit
by a single lamp, and seemingly without a window of any sort. Passing
through this, he opened another door, and motioned me to enter. It was a
welcome sight; for here was a great bedroom well lighted and warmed with
another log fire,--also added to but lately, for the top logs were
fresh--which sent a hollow roar up the wide chimney. The Count himself
left my luggage inside and withdrew, saying, before he closed the
door:--

"You will need, after your journey, to refresh yourself by making your
toilet. I trust you will find all you wish. When you are ready, come
into the other room, where you will find your supper prepared."

The light and warmth and the Count's courteous welcome seemed to have
dissipated all my doubts and fears. Having then reached my normal state,
I discovered that I was half famished with hunger; so making a hasty
toilet, I went into the other room.

I found supper already laid out. My host, who stood on one side of the
great fireplace, leaning against the stonework, made a graceful wave of
his hand to the table, and said:--

"I pray you, be seated and sup how you please. You will, I trust, excuse
me that I do not join you; but I have dined already, and I do not sup."

I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had entrusted to me.
He opened it and read it gravely; then, with a charming smile, he handed
it to me to read. One passage of it, at least, gave me a thrill of
pleasure.

"I must regret that an attack of gout, from which malady I am a constant
sufferer, forbids absolutely any travelling on my part for some time to
come; but I am happy to say I can send a sufficient substitute, one in
whom I have every possible confidence. He is a young man, full of energy
and talent in his own way, and of a very faithful disposition. He is
discreet and silent, and has grown into manhood in my service. He shall
be ready to attend on you when you will during his stay, and shall take
your instructions in all matters."

The Count himself came forward and took off the cover of a dish, and I
fell to at once on an excellent roast chicken. This, with some cheese
and a salad and a bottle of old Tokay, of which I had two glasses, was
my supper. During the time I was eating it the Count asked me many
questions as to my journey, and I told him by degrees all I had
experienced.

By this time I had finished my supper, and by my host's desire had drawn
up a chair by the fire and begun to smoke a cigar which he offered me,
at the same time excusing himself that he did not smoke. I had now an
opportunity of observing him, and found him of a very marked
physiognomy.

His face was a strong--a very strong--aquiline, with high bridge of the
thin nose and peculiarly arched nostrils; with lofty domed forehead, and
hair growing scantily round the temples but profusely elsewhere. His
eyebrows were very massive, almost meeting over the nose, and with bushy
hair that seemed to curl in its own profusion. The mouth, so far as I
could see it under the heavy moustache, was fixed and rather
cruel-looking, with peculiarly sharp white teeth; these protruded over
the lips, whose remarkable ruddiness showed astonishing vitality in a
man of his years. For the rest, his ears were pale, and at the tops
extremely pointed; the chin was broad and strong, and the cheeks firm
though thin. The general effect was one of extraordinary pallor.

Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they lay on his knees
in the firelight, and they had seemed rather white and fine; but seeing
them now close to me, I could not but notice that they were rather
coarse--broad, with squat fingers. Strange to say, there were hairs in
the centre of the palm. The nails were long and fine, and cut to a sharp
point. As the Count leaned over me and his hands touched me, I could not
repress a shudder. It may have been that his breath was rank, but a
horrible feeling of nausea came over me, which, do what I would, I could
not conceal. The Count, evidently noticing it, drew back; and with a
grim sort of smile, which showed more than he had yet done his
protuberant teeth, sat himself down again on his own side of the
fireplace. We were both silent for a while; and as I looked towards the
window I saw the first dim streak of the coming dawn. There seemed a
strange stillness over everything; but as I listened I heard as if from
down below in the valley the howling of many wolves. The Count's eyes
gleamed, and he said:--

"Listen to them--the children of the night. What music they make!"
Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my face strange to him, he
added:--

"Ah, sir, you dwellers in the city cannot enter into the feelings of the
hunter." Then he rose and said:--

"But you must be tired. Your bedroom is all ready, and to-morrow you
shall sleep as late as you will. I have to be away till the afternoon;
so sleep well and dream well!" With a courteous bow, he opened for me
himself the door to the octagonal room, and I entered my bedroom....

I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think strange things,
which I dare not confess to my own soul. God keep me, if only for the
sake of those dear to me!

       *       *       *       *       *

_7 May._--It is again early morning, but I have rested and enjoyed the
last twenty-four hours. I slept till late in the day, and awoke of my
own accord. When I had dressed myself I went into the room where we had
supped, and found a cold breakfast laid out, with coffee kept hot by the
pot being placed on the hearth. There was a card on the table, on which
was written:--

"I have to be absent for a while. Do not wait for me.--D." I set to and
enjoyed a hearty meal. When I had done, I looked for a bell, so that I
might let the servants know I had finished; but I could not find one.
There are certainly odd deficiencies in the house, considering the
extraordinary evidences of wealth which are round me. The table service
is of gold, and so beautifully wrought that it must be of immense value.
The curtains and upholstery of the chairs and sofas and the hangings of
my bed are of the costliest and most beautiful fabrics, and must have
been of fabulous value when they were made, for they are centuries old,
though in excellent order. I saw something like them in Hampton Court,
but there they were worn and frayed and moth-eaten. But still in none of
the rooms is there a mirror. There is not even a toilet glass on my
table, and I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before I
could either shave or brush my hair. I have not yet seen a servant
anywhere, or heard a sound near the castle except the howling of wolves.
Some time after I had finished my meal--I do not know whether to call it
breakfast or dinner, for it was between five and six o'clock when I had
it--I looked about for something to read, for I did not like to go about
the castle until I had asked the Count's permission. There was
absolutely nothing in the room, book, newspaper, or even writing
materials; so I opened another door in the room and found a sort of
library. The door opposite mine I tried, but found it locked.

In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast number of English
books, whole shelves full of them, and bound volumes of magazines and
newspapers. A table in the centre was littered with English magazines
and newspapers, though none of them were of very recent date. The books
were of the most varied kind--history, geography, politics, political
economy, botany, geology, law--all relating to England and English life
and customs and manners. There were even such books of reference as the
London Directory, the "Red" and "Blue" books, Whitaker's Almanac, the
Army and Navy Lists, and--it somehow gladdened my heart to see it--the
Law List.

Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count
entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had a good
night's rest. Then he went on:--

"I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure there is much that
will interest you. These companions"--and he laid his hand on some of
the books--"have been good friends to me, and for some years past, ever
since I had the idea of going to London, have given me many, many hours
of pleasure. Through them I have come to know your great England; and to
know her is to love her. I long to go through the crowded streets of
your mighty London, to be in the midst of the whirl and rush of
humanity, to share its life, its change, its death, and all that makes
it what it is. But alas! as yet I only know your tongue through books.
To you, my friend, I look that I know it to speak."

"But, Count," I said, "you know and speak English thoroughly!" He bowed
gravely.

"I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering estimate, but yet I
fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel. True, I know
the grammar and the words, but yet I know not how to speak them."

"Indeed," I said, "you speak excellently."

"Not so," he answered. "Well, I know that, did I move and speak in your
London, none there are who would not know me for a stranger. That is not
enough for me. Here I am noble; I am _boyar_; the common people know me,
and I am master. But a stranger in a strange land, he is no one; men
know him not--and to know not is to care not for. I am content if I am
like the rest, so that no man stops if he see me, or pause in his
speaking if he hear my words, 'Ha, ha! a stranger!' I have been so long
master that I would be master still--or at least that none other should
be master of me. You come to me not alone as agent of my friend Peter
Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all about my new estate in London. You
shall, I trust, rest here with me awhile, so that by our talking I may
learn the English intonation; and I would that you tell me when I make
error, even of the smallest, in my speaking. I am sorry that I had to be
away so long to-day; but you will, I know, forgive one who has so many
important affairs in hand."

Of course I said all I could about being willing, and asked if I might
come into that room when I chose. He answered: "Yes, certainly," and
added:--

"You may go anywhere you wish in the castle, except where the doors are
locked, where of course you will not wish to go. There is reason that
all things are as they are, and did you see with my eyes and know with
my knowledge, you would perhaps better understand." I said I was sure of
this, and then he went on:--

"We are in Transylvania; and Transylvania is not England. Our ways are
not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things. Nay, from
what you have told me of your experiences already, you know something of
what strange things there may be."

This led to much conversation; and as it was evident that he wanted to
talk, if only for talking's sake, I asked him many questions regarding
things that had already happened to me or come within my notice.
Sometimes he sheered off the subject, or turned the conversation by
pretending not to understand; but generally he answered all I asked most
frankly. Then as time went on, and I had got somewhat bolder, I asked
him of some of the strange things of the preceding night, as, for
instance, why the coachman went to the places where he had seen the blue
flames. He then explained to me that it was commonly believed that on a
certain night of the year--last night, in fact, when all evil spirits
are supposed to have unchecked sway--a blue flame is seen over any place
where treasure has been concealed. "That treasure has been hidden," he
went on, "in the region through which you came last night, there can be
but little doubt; for it was the ground fought over for centuries by the
Wallachian, the Saxon, and the Turk. Why, there is hardly a foot of soil
in all this region that has not been enriched by the blood of men,
patriots or invaders. In old days there were stirring times, when the
Austrian and the Hungarian came up in hordes, and the patriots went out
to meet them--men and women, the aged and the children too--and waited
their coming on the rocks above the passes, that they might sweep
destruction on them with their artificial avalanches. When the invader
was triumphant he found but little, for whatever there was had been
sheltered in the friendly soil."

"But how," said I, "can it have remained so long undiscovered, when
there is a sure index to it if men will but take the trouble to look?"
The Count smiled, and as his lips ran back over his gums, the long,
sharp, canine teeth showed out strangely; he answered:--

"Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool! Those flames only
appear on one night; and on that night no man of this land will, if he
can help it, stir without his doors. And, dear sir, even if he did he
would not know what to do. Why, even the peasant that you tell me of who
marked the place of the flame would not know where to look in daylight
even for his own work. Even you would not, I dare be sworn, be able to
find these places again?"

"There you are right," I said. "I know no more than the dead where even
to look for them." Then we drifted into other matters.

"Come," he said at last, "tell me of London and of the house which you
have procured for me." With an apology for my remissness, I went into my
own room to get the papers from my bag. Whilst I was placing them in
order I heard a rattling of china and silver in the next room, and as I
passed through, noticed that the table had been cleared and the lamp
lit, for it was by this time deep into the dark. The lamps were also lit
in the study or library, and I found the Count lying on the sofa,
reading, of all things in the world, an English Bradshaw's Guide. When I
came in he cleared the books and papers from the table; and with him I
went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts. He was interested in
everything, and asked me a myriad questions about the place and its
surroundings. He clearly had studied beforehand all he could get on the
subject of the neighbourhood, for he evidently at the end knew very much
more than I did. When I remarked this, he answered:--

"Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should? When I go there
I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Jonathan--nay, pardon me, I
fall into my country's habit of putting your patronymic first--my friend
Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me. He will be
in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers of the law with my
other friend, Peter Hawkins. So!"

We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase of the estate at
Purfleet. When I had told him the facts and got his signature to the
necessary papers, and had written a letter with them ready to post to
Mr. Hawkins, he began to ask me how I had come across so suitable a
place. I read to him the notes which I had made at the time, and which I
inscribe here:--

"At Purfleet, on a by-road, I came across just such a place as seemed to
be required, and where was displayed a dilapidated notice that the place
was for sale. It is surrounded by a high wall, of ancient structure,
built of heavy stones, and has not been repaired for a large number of
years. The closed gates are of heavy old oak and iron, all eaten with
rust.

"The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of the old _Quatre
Face_, as the house is four-sided, agreeing with the cardinal points of
the compass. It contains in all some twenty acres, quite surrounded by
the solid stone wall above mentioned. There are many trees on it, which
make it in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pond or
small lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water is clear and
flows away in a fair-sized stream. The house is very large and of all
periods back, I should say, to mediæval times, for one part is of stone
immensely thick, with only a few windows high up and heavily barred with
iron. It looks like part of a keep, and is close to an old chapel or
church. I could not enter it, as I had not the key of the door leading
to it from the house, but I have taken with my kodak views of it from
various points. The house has been added to, but in a very straggling
way, and I can only guess at the amount of ground it covers, which must
be very great. There are but few houses close at hand, one being a very
large house only recently added to and formed into a private lunatic
asylum. It is not, however, visible from the grounds."

When I had finished, he said:--

"I am glad that it is old and big. I myself am of an old family, and to
live in a new house would kill me. A house cannot be made habitable in a
day; and, after all, how few days go to make up a century. I rejoice
also that there is a chapel of old times. We Transylvanian nobles love
not to think that our bones may lie amongst the common dead. I seek not
gaiety nor mirth, not the bright voluptuousness of much sunshine and
sparkling waters which please the young and gay. I am no longer young;
and my heart, through weary years of mourning over the dead, is not
attuned to mirth. Moreover, the walls of my castle are broken; the
shadows are many, and the wind breathes cold through the broken
battlements and casements. I love the shade and the shadow, and would
be alone with my thoughts when I may." Somehow his words and his look
did not seem to accord, or else it was that his cast of face made his
smile look malignant and saturnine.

Presently, with an excuse, he left me, asking me to put all my papers
together. He was some little time away, and I began to look at some of
the books around me. One was an atlas, which I found opened naturally at
England, as if that map had been much used. On looking at it I found in
certain places little rings marked, and on examining these I noticed
that one was near London on the east side, manifestly where his new
estate was situated; the other two were Exeter, and Whitby on the
Yorkshire coast.

It was the better part of an hour when the Count returned. "Aha!" he
said; "still at your books? Good! But you must not work always. Come; I
am informed that your supper is ready." He took my arm, and we went into
the next room, where I found an excellent supper ready on the table. The
Count again excused himself, as he had dined out on his being away from
home. But he sat as on the previous night, and chatted whilst I ate.
After supper I smoked, as on the last evening, and the Count stayed with
me, chatting and asking questions on every conceivable subject, hour
after hour. I felt that it was getting very late indeed, but I did not
say anything, for I felt under obligation to meet my host's wishes in
every way. I was not sleepy, as the long sleep yesterday had fortified
me; but I could not help experiencing that chill which comes over one at
the coming of the dawn, which is like, in its way, the turn of the tide.
They say that people who are near death die generally at the change to
the dawn or at the turn of the tide; any one who has when tired, and
tied as it were to his post, experienced this change in the atmosphere
can well believe it. All at once we heard the crow of a cock coming up
with preternatural shrillness through the clear morning air; Count
Dracula, jumping to his feet, said:--

"Why, there is the morning again! How remiss I am to let you stay up so
long. You must make your conversation regarding my dear new country of
England less interesting, so that I may not forget how time flies by
us," and, with a courtly bow, he quickly left me.

I went into my own room and drew the curtains, but there was little to
notice; my window opened into the courtyard, all I could see was the
warm grey of quickening sky. So I pulled the curtains again, and have
written of this day.

       *       *       *       *       *

_8 May._--I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I was getting too
diffuse; but now I am glad that I went into detail from the first, for
there is something so strange about this place and all in it that I
cannot but feel uneasy. I wish I were safe out of it, or that I had
never come. It may be that this strange night-existence is telling on
me; but would that that were all! If there were any one to talk to I
could bear it, but there is no one. I have only the Count to speak with,
and he!--I fear I am myself the only living soul within the place. Let
me be prosaic so far as facts can be; it will help me to bear up, and
imagination must not run riot with me. If it does I am lost. Let me say
at once how I stand--or seem to.

I only slept a few hours when I went to bed, and feeling that I could
not sleep any more, got up. I had hung my shaving glass by the window,
and was just beginning to shave. Suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder,
and heard the Count's voice saying to me, "Good-morning." I started, for
it amazed me that I had not seen him, since the reflection of the glass
covered the whole room behind me. In starting I had cut myself slightly,
but did not notice it at the moment. Having answered the Count's
salutation, I turned to the glass again to see how I had been mistaken.
This time there could be no error, for the man was close to me, and I
could see him over my shoulder. But there was no reflection of him in
the mirror! The whole room behind me was displayed; but there was no
sign of a man in it, except myself. This was startling, and, coming on
the top of so many strange things, was beginning to increase that vague
feeling of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near; but at
the instant I saw that the cut had bled a little, and the blood was
trickling over my chin. I laid down the razor, turning as I did so half
round to look for some sticking plaster. When the Count saw my face, his
eyes blazed with a sort of demoniac fury, and he suddenly made a grab at
my throat. I drew away, and his hand touched the string of beads which
held the crucifix. It made an instant change in him, for the fury passed
so quickly that I could hardly believe that it was ever there.

"Take care," he said, "take care how you cut yourself. It is more
dangerous than you think in this country." Then seizing the shaving
glass, he went on: "And this is the wretched thing that has done the
mischief. It is a foul bauble of man's vanity. Away with it!" and
opening the heavy window with one wrench of his terrible hand, he flung
out the glass, which was shattered into a thousand pieces on the stones
of the courtyard far below. Then he withdrew without a word. It is very
annoying, for I do not see how I am to shave, unless in my watch-case or
the bottom of the shaving-pot, which is fortunately of metal.

When I went into the dining-room, breakfast was prepared; but I could
not find the Count anywhere. So I breakfasted alone. It is strange that
as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink. He must be a very
peculiar man! After breakfast I did a little exploring in the castle. I
went out on the stairs, and found a room looking towards the South. The
view was magnificent, and from where I stood there was every opportunity
of seeing it. The castle is on the very edge of a terrible precipice. A
stone falling from the window would fall a thousand feet without
touching anything! As far as the eye can reach is a sea of green tree
tops, with occasionally a deep rift where there is a chasm. Here and
there are silver threads where the rivers wind in deep gorges through
the forests.

But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the view I
explored further; doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all locked and
bolted. In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there
an available exit.

The castle is a veritable prison, and I am a prisoner!




CHAPTER III

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL--_continued_


When I found that I was a prisoner a sort of wild feeling came over me.
I rushed up and down the stairs, trying every door and peering out of
every window I could find; but after a little the conviction of my
helplessness overpowered all other feelings. When I look back after a
few hours I think I must have been mad for the time, for I behaved much
as a rat does in a trap. When, however, the conviction had come to me
that I was helpless I sat down quietly--as quietly as I have ever done
anything in my life--and began to think over what was best to be done. I
am thinking still, and as yet have come to no definite conclusion. Of
one thing only am I certain; that it is no use making my ideas known to
the Count. He knows well that I am imprisoned; and as he has done it
himself, and has doubtless his own motives for it, he would only deceive
me if I trusted him fully with the facts. So far as I can see, my only
plan will be to keep my knowledge and my fears to myself, and my eyes
open. I am, I know, either being deceived, like a baby, by my own fears,
or else I am in desperate straits; and if the latter be so, I need, and
shall need, all my brains to get through.

I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door below
shut, and knew that the Count had returned. He did not come at once into
the library, so I went cautiously to my own room and found him making
the bed. This was odd, but only confirmed what I had all along
thought--that there were no servants in the house. When later I saw him
through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the table in the
dining-room, I was assured of it; for if he does himself all these
menial offices, surely it is proof that there is no one else to do them.
This gave me a fright, for if there is no one else in the castle, it
must have been the Count himself who was the driver of the coach that
brought me here. This is a terrible thought; for if so, what does it
mean that he could control the wolves, as he did, by only holding up his
hand in silence. How was it that all the people at Bistritz and on the
coach had some terrible fear for me? What meant the giving of the
crucifix, of the garlic, of the wild rose, of the mountain ash? Bless
that good, good woman who hung the crucifix round my neck! for it is a
comfort and a strength to me whenever I touch it. It is odd that a thing
which I have been taught to regard with disfavour and as idolatrous
should in a time of loneliness and trouble be of help. Is it that there
is something in the essence of the thing itself, or that it is a medium,
a tangible help, in conveying memories of sympathy and comfort? Some
time, if it may be, I must examine this matter and try to make up my
mind about it. In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count
Dracula, as it may help me to understand. To-night he may talk of
himself, if I turn the conversation that way. I must be very careful,
however, not to awake his suspicion.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Midnight._--I have had a long talk with the Count. I asked him a few
questions on Transylvania history, and he warmed up to the subject
wonderfully. In his speaking of things and people, and especially of
battles, he spoke as if he had been present at them all. This he
afterwards explained by saying that to a _boyar_ the pride of his house
and name is his own pride, that their glory is his glory, that their
fate is his fate. Whenever he spoke of his house he always said "we,"
and spoke almost in the plural, like a king speaking. I wish I could put
down all he said exactly as he said it, for to me it was most
fascinating. It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country. He
grew excited as he spoke, and walked about the room pulling his great
white moustache and grasping anything on which he laid his hands as
though he would crush it by main strength. One thing he said which I
shall put down as nearly as I can; for it tells in its way the story of
his race:--

"We Szekelys have a right to be proud, for in our veins flows the blood
of many brave races who fought as the lion fights, for lordship. Here,
in the whirlpool of European races, the Ugric tribe bore down from
Iceland the fighting spirit which Thor and Wodin gave them, which their
Berserkers displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards of Europe, ay,
and of Asia and Africa too, till the peoples thought that the
were-wolves themselves had come. Here, too, when they came, they found
the Huns, whose warlike fury had swept the earth like a living flame,
till the dying peoples held that in their veins ran the blood of those
old witches, who, expelled from Scythia had mated with the devils in the
desert. Fools, fools! What devil or what witch was ever so great as
Attila, whose blood is in these veins?" He held up his arms. "Is it a
wonder that we were a conquering race; that we were proud; that when the
Magyar, the Lombard, the Avar, the Bulgar, or the Turk poured his
thousands on our frontiers, we drove them back? Is it strange that when
Arpad and his legions swept through the Hungarian fatherland he found us
here when he reached the frontier; that the Honfoglalas was completed
there? And when the Hungarian flood swept eastward, the Szekelys were
claimed as kindred by the victorious Magyars, and to us for centuries
was trusted the guarding of the frontier of Turkey-land; ay, and more
than that, endless duty of the frontier guard, for, as the Turks say,
'water sleeps, and enemy is sleepless.' Who more gladly than we
throughout the Four Nations received the 'bloody sword,' or at its
warlike call flocked quicker to the standard of the King? When was
redeemed that great shame of my nation, the shame of Cassova, when the
flags of the Wallach and the Magyar went down beneath the Crescent? Who
was it but one of my own race who as Voivode crossed the Danube and beat
the Turk on his own ground? This was a Dracula indeed! Woe was it that
his own unworthy brother, when he had fallen, sold his people to the
Turk and brought the shame of slavery on them! Was it not this Dracula,
indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age again and
again brought his forces over the great river into Turkey-land; who,
when he was beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had
to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being
slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph! They
said that he thought only of himself. Bah! what good are peasants
without a leader? Where ends the war without a brain and heart to
conduct it? Again, when, after the battle of Mohács, we threw off the
Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for
our spirit would not brook that we were not free. Ah, young sir, the
Szekelys--and the Dracula as their heart's blood, their brains, and
their swords--can boast a record that mushroom growths like the
Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach. The warlike days are over.
Blood is too precious a thing in these days of dishonourable peace; and
the glories of the great races are as a tale that is told."

It was by this time close on morning, and we went to bed. (_Mem._, this
diary seems horribly like the beginning of the "Arabian Nights," for
everything has to break off at cockcrow--or like the ghost of Hamlet's
father.)

       *       *       *       *       *

_12 May._--Let me begin with facts--bare, meagre facts, verified by
books and figures, and of which there can be no doubt. I must not
confuse them with experiences which will have to rest on my own
observation, or my memory of them. Last evening when the Count came from
his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and on the
doing of certain kinds of business. I had spent the day wearily over
books, and, simply to keep my mind occupied, went over some of the
matters I had been examining at Lincoln's Inn. There was a certain
method in the Count's inquiries, so I shall try to put them down in
sequence; the knowledge may somehow or some time be useful to me.

First, he asked if a man in England might have two solicitors or more. I
told him he might have a dozen if he wished, but that it would not be
wise to have more than one solicitor engaged in one transaction, as only
one could act at a time, and that to change would be certain to militate
against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to understand, and went on to
ask if there would be any practical difficulty in having one man to
attend, say, to banking, and another to look after shipping, in case
local help were needed in a place far from the home of the banking
solicitor. I asked him to explain more fully, so that I might not by any
chance mislead him, so he said:--

"I shall illustrate. Your friend and mine, Mr. Peter Hawkins, from under
the shadow of your beautiful cathedral at Exeter, which is far from
London, buys for me through your good self my place at London. Good! Now
here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have
sought the services of one so far off from London instead of some one
resident there, that my motive was that no local interest might be
served save my wish only; and as one of London residence might, perhaps,
have some purpose of himself or friend to serve, I went thus afield to
seek my agent, whose labours should be only to my interest. Now, suppose
I, who have much of affairs, wish to ship goods, say, to Newcastle, or
Durham, or Harwich, or Dover, might it not be that it could with more
ease be done by consigning to one in these ports?" I answered that
certainly it would be most easy, but that we solicitors had a system of
agency one for the other, so that local work could be done locally on
instruction from any solicitor, so that the client, simply placing
himself in the hands of one man, could have his wishes carried out by
him without further trouble.

"But," said he, "I could be at liberty to direct myself. Is it not so?"

"Of course," I replied; and "such is often done by men of business, who
do not like the whole of their affairs to be known by any one person."

"Good!" he said, and then went on to ask about the means of making
consignments and the forms to be gone through, and of all sorts of
difficulties which might arise, but by forethought could be guarded
against. I explained all these things to him to the best of my ability,
and he certainly left me under the impression that he would have made a
wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he did not think of or
foresee. For a man who was never in the country, and who did not
evidently do much in the way of business, his knowledge and acumen were
wonderful. When he had satisfied himself on these points of which he had
spoken, and I had verified all as well as I could by the books
available, he suddenly stood up and said:--

"Have you written since your first letter to our friend Mr. Peter
Hawkins, or to any other?" It was with some bitterness in my heart that
I answered that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of
sending letters to anybody.

"Then write now, my young friend," he said, laying a heavy hand on my
shoulder: "write to our friend and to any other; and say, if it will
please you, that you shall stay with me until a month from now."

"Do you wish me to stay so long?" I asked, for my heart grew cold at the
thought.

"I desire it much; nay, I will take no refusal. When your master,
employer, what you will, engaged that someone should come on his behalf,
it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted. I have not
stinted. Is it not so?"

What could I do but bow acceptance? It was Mr. Hawkins's interest, not
mine, and I had to think of him, not myself; and besides, while Count
Dracula was speaking, there was that in his eyes and in his bearing
which made me remember that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished it I
could have no choice. The Count saw his victory in my bow, and his
mastery in the trouble of my face, for he began at once to use them, but
in his own smooth, resistless way:--

"I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not discourse of things
other than business in your letters. It will doubtless please your
friends to know that you are well, and that you look forward to getting
home to them. Is it not so?" As he spoke he handed me three sheets of
note-paper and three envelopes. They were all of the thinnest foreign
post, and looking at them, then at him, and noticing his quiet smile,
with the sharp, canine teeth lying over the red underlip, I understood
as well as if he had spoken that I should be careful what I wrote, for
he would be able to read it. So I determined to write only formal notes
now, but to write fully to Mr. Hawkins in secret, and also to Mina, for
to her I could write in shorthand, which would puzzle the Count, if he
did see it. When I had written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a
book whilst the Count wrote several notes, referring as he wrote them to
some books on his table. Then he took up my two and placed them with his
own, and put by his writing materials, after which, the instant the door
had closed behind him, I leaned over and looked at the letters, which
were face down on the table. I felt no compunction in doing so, for
under the circumstances I felt that I should protect myself in every way
I could.

One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington, No. 7, The
Crescent, Whitby, another to Herr Leutner, Varna; the third was to
Coutts & Co., London, and the fourth to Herren Klopstock & Billreuth,
bankers, Buda-Pesth. The second and fourth were unsealed. I was just
about to look at them when I saw the door-handle move. I sank back in my
seat, having just had time to replace the letters as they had been and
to resume my book before the Count, holding still another letter in his
hand, entered the room. He took up the letters on the table and stamped
them carefully, and then turning to me, said:--

"I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to do in private this
evening. You will, I hope, find all things as you wish." At the door he
turned, and after a moment's pause said:--

"Let me advise you, my dear young friend--nay, let me warn you with all
seriousness, that should you leave these rooms you will not by any
chance go to sleep in any other part of the castle. It is old, and has
many memories, and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely. Be
warned! Should sleep now or ever overcome you, or be like to do, then
haste to your own chamber or to these rooms, for your rest will then be
safe. But if you be not careful in this respect, then"--He finished his
speech in a gruesome way, for he motioned with his hands as if he were
washing them. I quite understood; my only doubt was as to whether any
dream could be more terrible than the unnatural, horrible net of gloom
and mystery which seemed closing around me.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Later._--I endorse the last words written, but this time there is no
doubt in question. I shall not fear to sleep in any place where he is
not. I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed--I imagine that
my rest is thus freer from dreams; and there it shall remain.

When he left me I went to my room. After a little while, not hearing any
sound, I came out and went up the stone stair to where I could look out
towards the South. There was some sense of freedom in the vast expanse,
inaccessible though it was to me, as compared with the narrow darkness
of the courtyard. Looking out on this, I felt that I was indeed in
prison, and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air, though it were of
the night. I am beginning to feel this nocturnal existence tell on me.
It is destroying my nerve. I start at my own shadow, and am full of all
sorts of horrible imaginings. God knows that there is ground for my
terrible fear in this accursed place! I looked out over the beautiful
expanse, bathed in soft yellow moonlight till it was almost as light as
day. In the soft light the distant hills became melted, and the shadows
in the valleys and gorges of velvety blackness. The mere beauty seemed
to cheer me; there was peace and comfort in every breath I drew. As I
leaned from the window my eye was caught by something moving a storey
below me, and somewhat to my left, where I imagined, from the order of
the rooms, that the windows of the Count's own room would look out. The
window at which I stood was tall and deep, stone-mullioned, and though
weatherworn, was still complete; but it was evidently many a day since
the case had been there. I drew back behind the stonework, and looked
carefully out.

What I saw was the Count's head coming out from the window. I did not
see the face, but I knew the man by the neck and the movement of his
back and arms. In any case I could not mistake the hands which I had had
so many opportunities of studying. I was at first interested and
somewhat amused, for it is wonderful how small a matter will interest
and amuse a man when he is a prisoner. But my very feelings changed to
repulsion and terror when I saw the whole man slowly emerge from the
window and begin to crawl down the castle wall over that dreadful abyss,
_face down_ with his cloak spreading out around him like great wings. At
first I could not believe my eyes. I thought it was some trick of the
moonlight, some weird effect of shadow; but I kept looking, and it could
be no delusion. I saw the fingers and toes grasp the corners of the
stones, worn clear of the mortar by the stress of years, and by thus
using every projection and inequality move downwards with considerable
speed, just as a lizard moves along a wall.

What manner of man is this, or what manner of creature is it in the
semblance of man? I feel the dread of this horrible place overpowering
me; I am in fear--in awful fear--and there is no escape for me; I am
encompassed about with terrors that I dare not think of....

       *       *       *       *       *

_15 May._--Once more have I seen the Count go out in his lizard fashion.
He moved downwards in a sidelong way, some hundred feet down, and a good
deal to the left. He vanished into some hole or window. When his head
had disappeared, I leaned out to try and see more, but without
avail--the distance was too great to allow a proper angle of sight. I
knew he had left the castle now, and thought to use the opportunity to
explore more than I had dared to do as yet. I went back to the room, and
taking a lamp, tried all the doors. They were all locked, as I had
expected, and the locks were comparatively new; but I went down the
stone stairs to the hall where I had entered originally. I found I could
pull back the bolts easily enough and unhook the great chains; but the
door was locked, and the key was gone! That key must be in the Count's
room; I must watch should his door be unlocked, so that I may get it and
escape. I went on to make a thorough examination of the various stairs
and passages, and to try the doors that opened from them. One or two
small rooms near the hall were open, but there was nothing to see in
them except old furniture, dusty with age and moth-eaten. At last,
however, I found one door at the top of the stairway which, though it
seemed to be locked, gave a little under pressure. I tried it harder,
and found that it was not really locked, but that the resistance came
from the fact that the hinges had fallen somewhat, and the heavy door
rested on the floor. Here was an opportunity which I might not have
again, so I exerted myself, and with many efforts forced it back so that
I could enter. I was now in a wing of the castle further to the right
than the rooms I knew and a storey lower down. From the windows I could
see that the suite of rooms lay along to the south of the castle, the
windows of the end room looking out both west and south. On the latter
side, as well as to the former, there was a great precipice. The castle
was built on the corner of a great rock, so that on three sides it was
quite impregnable, and great windows were placed here where sling, or
bow, or culverin could not reach, and consequently light and comfort,
impossible to a position which had to be guarded, were secured. To the
west was a great valley, and then, rising far away, great jagged
mountain fastnesses, rising peak on peak, the sheer rock studded with
mountain ash and thorn, whose roots clung in cracks and crevices and
crannies of the stone. This was evidently the portion of the castle
occupied by the ladies in bygone days, for the furniture had more air of
comfort than any I had seen. The windows were curtainless, and the
yellow moonlight, flooding in through the diamond panes, enabled one to
see even colours, whilst it softened the wealth of dust which lay over
all and disguised in some measure the ravages of time and the moth. My
lamp seemed to be of little effect in the brilliant moonlight, but I was
glad to have it with me, for there was a dread loneliness in the place
which chilled my heart and made my nerves tremble. Still, it was better
than living alone in the rooms which I had come to hate from the
presence of the Count, and after trying a little to school my nerves, I
found a soft quietude come over me. Here I am, sitting at a little oak
table where in old times possibly some fair lady sat to pen, with much
thought and many blushes, her ill-spelt love-letter, and writing in my
diary in shorthand all that has happened since I closed it last. It is
nineteenth century up-to-date with a vengeance. And yet, unless my
senses deceive me, the old centuries had, and have, powers of their own
which mere "modernity" cannot kill.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Later: the Morning of 16 May._--God preserve my sanity, for to this I
am reduced. Safety and the assurance of safety are things of the past.
Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for, that I may not
go mad, if, indeed, I be not mad already. If I be sane, then surely it
is maddening to think that of all the foul things that lurk in this
hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me; that to him alone I
can look for safety, even though this be only whilst I can serve his
purpose. Great God! merciful God! Let me be calm, for out of that way
lies madness indeed. I begin to get new lights on certain things which
have puzzled me. Up to now I never quite knew what Shakespeare meant
when he made Hamlet say:--

    "My tablets! quick, my tablets!
    'Tis meet that I put it down," etc.,

for now, feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock
had come which must end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose.
The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me.

The Count's mysterious warning frightened me at the time; it frightens
me more now when I think of it, for in future he has a fearful hold upon
me. I shall fear to doubt what he may say!

When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the book and
pen in my pocket I felt sleepy. The Count's warning came into my mind,
but I took a pleasure in disobeying it. The sense of sleep was upon me,
and with it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft
moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense of freedom
which refreshed me. I determined not to return to-night to the
gloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep here, where, of old, ladies had sat
and sung and lived sweet lives whilst their gentle breasts were sad for
their menfolk away in the midst of remorseless wars. I drew a great
couch out of its place near the corner, so that as I lay, I could look
at the lovely view to east and south, and unthinking of and uncaring for
the dust, composed myself for sleep. I suppose I must have fallen
asleep; I hope so, but I fear, for all that followed was startlingly
real--so real that now sitting here in the broad, full sunlight of the
morning, I cannot in the least believe that it was all sleep.

I was not alone. The room was the same, unchanged in any way since I
came into it; I could see along the floor, in the brilliant moonlight,
my own footsteps marked where I had disturbed the long accumulation of
dust. In the moonlight opposite me were three young women, ladies by
their dress and manner. I thought at the time that I must be dreaming
when I saw them, for, though the moonlight was behind them, they threw
no shadow on the floor. They came close to me, and looked at me for some
time, and then whispered together. Two were dark, and had high aquiline
noses, like the Count, and great dark, piercing eyes that seemed to be
almost red when contrasted with the pale yellow moon. The other was
fair, as fair as can be, with great wavy masses of golden hair and eyes
like pale sapphires. I seemed somehow to know her face, and to know it
in connection with some dreamy fear, but I could not recollect at the
moment how or where. All three had brilliant white teeth that shone like
pearls against the ruby of their voluptuous lips. There was something
about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the same time some
deadly fear. I felt in my heart a wicked, burning desire that they would
kiss me with those red lips. It is not good to note this down, lest some
day it should meet Mina's eyes and cause her pain; but it is the truth.
They whispered together, and then they all three laughed--such a
silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as though the sound never could have
come through the softness of human lips. It was like the intolerable,
tingling sweetness of water-glasses when played on by a cunning hand.
The fair girl shook her head coquettishly, and the other two urged her
on. One said:--

"Go on! You are first, and we shall follow; yours is the right to
begin." The other added:--

"He is young and strong; there are kisses for us all." I lay quiet,
looking out under my eyelashes in an agony of delightful anticipation.
The fair girl advanced and bent over me till I could feel the movement
of her breath upon me. Sweet it was in one sense, honey-sweet, and sent
the same tingling through the nerves as her voice, but with a bitter
underlying the sweet, a bitter offensiveness, as one smells in blood.

I was afraid to raise my eyelids, but looked out and saw perfectly under
the lashes. The girl went on her knees, and bent over me, simply
gloating. There was a deliberate voluptuousness which was both thrilling
and repulsive, and as she arched her neck she actually licked her lips
like an animal, till I could see in the moonlight the moisture shining
on the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as it lapped the white sharp
teeth. Lower and lower went her head as the lips went below the range of
my mouth and chin and seemed about to fasten on my throat. Then she
paused, and I could hear the churning sound of her tongue as it licked
her teeth and lips, and could feel the hot breath on my neck. Then the
skin of my throat began to tingle as one's flesh does when the hand that
is to tickle it approaches nearer--nearer. I could feel the soft,
shivering touch of the lips on the super-sensitive skin of my throat,
and the hard dents of two sharp teeth, just touching and pausing there.
I closed my eyes in a languorous ecstasy and waited--waited with beating
heart.

But at that instant, another sensation swept through me as quick as
lightning. I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of his
being as if lapped in a storm of fury. As my eyes opened involuntarily I
saw his strong hand grasp the slender neck of the fair woman and with
giant's power draw it back, the blue eyes transformed with fury, the
white teeth champing with rage, and the fair cheeks blazing red with
passion. But the Count! Never did I imagine such wrath and fury, even to
the demons of the pit. His eyes were positively blazing. The red light
in them was lurid, as if the flames of hell-fire blazed behind them. His
face was deathly pale, and the lines of it were hard like drawn wires;
the thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar
of white-hot metal. With a fierce sweep of his arm, he hurled the woman
from him, and then motioned to the others, as though he were beating
them back; it was the same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the
wolves. In a voice which, though low and almost in a whisper seemed to
cut through the air and then ring round the room he said:--

"How dare you touch him, any of you? How dare you cast eyes on him when
I had forbidden it? Back, I tell you all! This man belongs to me! Beware
how you meddle with him, or you'll have to deal with me." The fair girl,
with a laugh of ribald coquetry, turned to answer him:--

"You yourself never loved; you never love!" On this the other women
joined, and such a mirthless, hard, soulless laughter rang through the
room that it almost made me faint to hear; it seemed like the pleasure
of fiends. Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively,
and said in a soft whisper:--

"Yes, I too can love; you yourselves can tell it from the past. Is it
not so? Well, now I promise you that when I am done with him you shall
kiss him at your will. Now go! go! I must awaken him, for there is work
to be done."

"Are we to have nothing to-night?" said one of them, with a low laugh,
as she pointed to the bag which he had thrown upon the floor, and which
moved as though there were some living thing within it. For answer he
nodded his head. One of the women jumped forward and opened it. If my
ears did not deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail, as of a
half-smothered child. The women closed round, whilst I was aghast with
horror; but as I looked they disappeared, and with them the dreadful
bag. There was no door near them, and they could not have passed me
without my noticing. They simply seemed to fade into the rays of the
moonlight and pass out through the window, for I could see outside the
dim, shadowy forms for a moment before they entirely faded away.

Then the horror overcame me, and I sank down unconscious.




CHAPTER IV

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL--_continued_


I awoke in my own bed. If it be that I had not dreamt, the Count must
have carried me here. I tried to satisfy myself on the subject, but
could not arrive at any unquestionable result. To be sure, there were
certain small evidences, such as that my clothes were folded and laid by
in a manner which was not my habit. My watch was still unwound, and I am
rigorously accustomed to wind it the last thing before going to bed, and
many such details. But these things are no proof, for they may have been
evidences that my mind was not as usual, and, from some cause or
another, I had certainly been much upset. I must watch for proof. Of one
thing I am glad: if it was that the Count carried me here and undressed
me, he must have been hurried in his task, for my pockets are intact. I
am sure this diary would have been a mystery to him which he would not
have brooked. He would have taken or destroyed it. As I look round this
room, although it has been to me so full of fear, it is now a sort of
sanctuary, for nothing can be more dreadful than those awful women, who
were--who _are_--waiting to suck my blood.

       *       *       *       *       *

_18 May._--I have been down to look at that room again in daylight, for
I _must_ know the truth. When I got to the doorway at the top of the
stairs I found it closed. It had been so forcibly driven against the
jamb that part of the woodwork was splintered. I could see that the bolt
of the lock had not been shot, but the door is fastened from the inside.
I fear it was no dream, and must act on this surmise.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 May._--I am surely in the toils. Last night the Count asked me in
the suavest tones to write three letters, one saying that my work here
was nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days,
another that I was starting on the next morning from the time of the
letter, and the third that I had left the castle and arrived at
Bistritz. I would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the present state
of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Count whilst I
am so absolutely in his power; and to refuse would be to excite his
suspicion and to arouse his anger. He knows that I know too much, and
that I must not live, lest I be dangerous to him; my only chance is to
prolong my opportunities. Something may occur which will give me a
chance to escape. I saw in his eyes something of that gathering wrath
which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman from him. He explained
to me that posts were few and uncertain, and that my writing now would
ensure ease of mind to my friends; and he assured me with so much
impressiveness that he would countermand the later letters, which would
be held over at Bistritz until due time in case chance would admit of my
prolonging my stay, that to oppose him would have been to create new
suspicion. I therefore pretended to fall in with his views, and asked
him what dates I should put on the letters. He calculated a minute, and
then said:--

"The first should be June 12, the second June 19, and the third June
29."

I know now the span of my life. God help me!

       *       *       *       *       *

_28 May._--There is a chance of escape, or at any rate of being able to
send word home. A band of Szgany have come to the castle, and are
encamped in the courtyard. These Szgany are gipsies; I have notes of
them in my book. They are peculiar to this part of the world, though
allied to the ordinary gipsies all the world over. There are thousands
of them in Hungary and Transylvania, who are almost outside all law.
They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble or _boyar_, and
call themselves by his name. They are fearless and without religion,
save superstition, and they talk only their own varieties of the Romany
tongue.

I shall write some letters home, and shall try to get them to have them
posted. I have already spoken them through my window to begin
acquaintanceship. They took their hats off and made obeisance and many
signs, which, however, I could not understand any more than I could
their spoken language....

       *       *       *       *       *

I have written the letters. Mina's is in shorthand, and I simply ask Mr.
Hawkins to communicate with her. To her I have explained my situation,
but without the horrors which I may only surmise. It would shock and
frighten her to death were I to expose my heart to her. Should the
letters not carry, then the Count shall not yet know my secret or the
extent of my knowledge....

       *       *       *       *       *

I have given the letters; I threw them through the bars of my window
with a gold piece, and made what signs I could to have them posted. The
man who took them pressed them to his heart and bowed, and then put them
in his cap. I could do no more. I stole back to the study, and began to
read. As the Count did not come in, I have written here....

       *       *       *       *       *

The Count has come. He sat down beside me, and said in his smoothest
voice as he opened two letters:--

"The Szgany has given me these, of which, though I know not whence they
come, I shall, of course, take care. See!"--he must have looked at
it--"one is from you, and to my friend Peter Hawkins; the other"--here
he caught sight of the strange symbols as he opened the envelope, and
the dark look came into his face, and his eyes blazed wickedly--"the
other is a vile thing, an outrage upon friendship and hospitality! It is
not signed. Well! so it cannot matter to us." And he calmly held letter
and envelope in the flame of the lamp till they were consumed. Then he
went on:--

"The letter to Hawkins--that I shall, of course, send on, since it is
yours. Your letters are sacred to me. Your pardon, my friend, that
unknowingly I did break the seal. Will you not cover it again?" He held
out the letter to me, and with a courteous bow handed me a clean
envelope. I could only redirect it and hand it to him in silence. When
he went out of the room I could hear the key turn softly. A minute later
I went over and tried it, and the door was locked.

When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into the room, his
coming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on the sofa. He was very
courteous and very cheery in his manner, and seeing that I had been
sleeping, he said:--

"So, my friend, you are tired? Get to bed. There is the surest rest. I
may not have the pleasure to talk to-night, since there are many labours
to me; but you will sleep, I pray." I passed to my room and went to bed,
and, strange to say, slept without dreaming. Despair has its own calms.

       *       *       *       *       *

_31 May._--This morning when I woke I thought I would provide myself
with some paper and envelopes from my bag and keep them in my pocket, so
that I might write in case I should get an opportunity, but again a
surprise, again a shock!

Every scrap of paper was gone, and with it all my notes, my memoranda,
relating to railways and travel, my letter of credit, in fact all that
might be useful to me were I once outside the castle. I sat and pondered
awhile, and then some thought occurred to me, and I made search of my
portmanteau and in the wardrobe where I had placed my clothes.

The suit in which I had travelled was gone, and also my overcoat and
rug; I could find no trace of them anywhere. This looked like some new
scheme of villainy....

       *       *       *       *       *

_17 June._--This morning, as I was sitting on the edge of my bed
cudgelling my brains, I heard without a cracking of whips and pounding
and scraping of horses' feet up the rocky path beyond the courtyard.
With joy I hurried to the window, and saw drive into the yard two great
leiter-wagons, each drawn by eight sturdy horses, and at the head of
each pair a Slovak, with his wide hat, great nail-studded belt, dirty
sheepskin, and high boots. They had also their long staves in hand. I
ran to the door, intending to descend and try and join them through the
main hall, as I thought that way might be opened for them. Again a
shock: my door was fastened on the outside.

Then I ran to the window and cried to them. They looked up at me
stupidly and pointed, but just then the "hetman" of the Szgany came out,
and seeing them pointing to my window, said something, at which they
laughed. Henceforth no effort of mine, no piteous cry or agonised
entreaty, would make them even look at me. They resolutely turned away.
The leiter-wagons contained great, square boxes, with handles of thick
rope; these were evidently empty by the ease with which the Slovaks
handled them, and by their resonance as they were roughly moved. When
they were all unloaded and packed in a great heap in one corner of the
yard, the Slovaks were given some money by the Szgany, and spitting on
it for luck, lazily went each to his horse's head. Shortly afterwards, I
heard the cracking of their whips die away in the distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

_24 June, before morning._--Last night the Count left me early, and
locked himself into his own room. As soon as I dared I ran up the
winding stair, and looked out of the window, which opened south. I
thought I would watch for the Count, for there is something going on.
The Szgany are quartered somewhere in the castle and are doing work of
some kind. I know it, for now and then I hear a far-away muffled sound
as of mattock and spade, and, whatever it is, it must be the end of some
ruthless villainy.

I had been at the window somewhat less than half an hour, when I saw
something coming out of the Count's window. I drew back and watched
carefully, and saw the whole man emerge. It was a new shock to me to
find that he had on the suit of clothes which I had worn whilst
travelling here, and slung over his shoulder the terrible bag which I
had seen the women take away. There could be no doubt as to his quest,
and in my garb, too! This, then, is his new scheme of evil: that he will
allow others to see me, as they think, so that he may both leave
evidence that I have been seen in the towns or villages posting my own
letters, and that any wickedness which he may do shall by the local
people be attributed to me.

It makes me rage to think that this can go on, and whilst I am shut up
here, a veritable prisoner, but without that protection of the law which
is even a criminal's right and consolation.

I thought I would watch for the Count's return, and for a long time sat
doggedly at the window. Then I began to notice that there were some
quaint little specks floating in the rays of the moonlight. They were
like the tiniest grains of dust, and they whirled round and gathered in
clusters in a nebulous sort of way. I watched them with a sense of
soothing, and a sort of calm stole over me. I leaned back in the
embrasure in a more comfortable position, so that I could enjoy more
fully the aërial gambolling.

Something made me start up, a low, piteous howling of dogs somewhere far
below in the valley, which was hidden from my sight. Louder it seemed to
ring in my ears, and the floating motes of dust to take new shapes to
the sound as they danced in the moonlight. I felt myself struggling to
awake to some call of my instincts; nay, my very soul was struggling,
and my half-remembered sensibilities were striving to answer the call. I
was becoming hypnotised! Quicker and quicker danced the dust; the
moonbeams seemed to quiver as they went by me into the mass of gloom
beyond. More and more they gathered till they seemed to take dim phantom
shapes. And then I started, broad awake and in full possession of my
senses, and ran screaming from the place. The phantom shapes, which were
becoming gradually materialised from the moonbeams, were those of the
three ghostly women to whom I was doomed. I fled, and felt somewhat
safer in my own room, where there was no moonlight and where the lamp
was burning brightly.

When a couple of hours had passed I heard something stirring in the
Count's room, something like a sharp wail quickly suppressed; and then
there was silence, deep, awful silence, which chilled me. With a
beating heart, I tried the door; but I was locked in my prison, and
could do nothing. I sat down and simply cried.

As I sat I heard a sound in the courtyard without--the agonised cry of a
woman. I rushed to the window, and throwing it up, peered out between
the bars. There, indeed, was a woman with dishevelled hair, holding her
hands over her heart as one distressed with running. She was leaning
against a corner of the gateway. When she saw my face at the window she
threw herself forward, and shouted in a voice laden with menace:--

"Monster, give me my child!"

She threw herself on her knees, and raising up her hands, cried the same
words in tones which wrung my heart. Then she tore her hair and beat her
breast, and abandoned herself to all the violences of extravagant
emotion. Finally, she threw herself forward, and, though I could not see
her, I could hear the beating of her naked hands against the door.

Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard the voice of the
Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper. His call seemed to be
answered from far and wide by the howling of wolves. Before many minutes
had passed a pack of them poured, like a pent-up dam when liberated,
through the wide entrance into the courtyard.

There was no cry from the woman, and the howling of the wolves was but
short. Before long they streamed away singly, licking their lips.

I could not pity her, for I knew now what had become of her child, and
she was better dead.

What shall I do? what can I do? How can I escape from this dreadful
thing of night and gloom and fear?

       *       *       *       *       *

_25 June, morning._--No man knows till he has suffered from the night
how sweet and how dear to his heart and eye the morning can be. When the
sun grew so high this morning that it struck the top of the great
gateway opposite my window, the high spot which it touched seemed to me
as if the dove from the ark had lighted there. My fear fell from me as
if it had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth. I must
take action of some sort whilst the courage of the day is upon me. Last
night one of my post-dated letters went to post, the first of that fatal
series which is to blot out the very traces of my existence from the
earth.

Let me not think of it. Action!

It has always been at night-time that I have been molested or
threatened, or in some way in danger or in fear. I have not yet seen the
Count in the daylight. Can it be that he sleeps when others wake, that
he may be awake whilst they sleep? If I could only get into his room!
But there is no possible way. The door is always locked, no way for me.

Yes, there is a way, if one dares to take it. Where his body has gone
why may not another body go? I have seen him myself crawl from his
window. Why should not I imitate him, and go in by his window? The
chances are desperate, but my need is more desperate still. I shall risk
it. At the worst it can only be death; and a man's death is not a
calf's, and the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me. God help me
in my task! Good-bye, Mina, if I fail; good-bye, my faithful friend and
second father; good-bye, all, and last of all Mina!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Same day, later._--I have made the effort, and God, helping me, have
come safely back to this room. I must put down every detail in order. I
went whilst my courage was fresh straight to the window on the south
side, and at once got outside on the narrow ledge of stone which runs
around the building on this side. The stones are big and roughly cut,
and the mortar has by process of time been washed away between them. I
took off my boots, and ventured out on the desperate way. I looked down
once, so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse of the awful depth would
not overcome me, but after that kept my eyes away from it. I knew pretty
well the direction and distance of the Count's window, and made for it
as well as I could, having regard to the opportunities available. I did
not feel dizzy--I suppose I was too excited--and the time seemed
ridiculously short till I found myself standing on the window-sill and
trying to raise up the sash. I was filled with agitation, however, when
I bent down and slid feet foremost in through the window. Then I looked
around for the Count, but, with surprise and gladness, made a discovery.
The room was empty! It was barely furnished with odd things, which
seemed to have never been used; the furniture was something the same
style as that in the south rooms, and was covered with dust. I looked
for the key, but it was not in the lock, and I could not find it
anywhere. The only thing I found was a great heap of gold in one
corner--gold of all kinds, Roman, and British, and Austrian, and
Hungarian, and Greek and Turkish money, covered with a film of dust, as
though it had lain long in the ground. None of it that I noticed was
less than three hundred years old. There were also chains and ornaments,
some jewelled, but all of them old and stained.

At one corner of the room was a heavy door. I tried it, for, since I
could not find the key of the room or the key of the outer door, which
was the main object of my search, I must make further examination, or
all my efforts would be in vain. It was open, and led through a stone
passage to a circular stairway, which went steeply down. I descended,
minding carefully where I went, for the stairs were dark, being only lit
by loopholes in the heavy masonry. At the bottom there was a dark,
tunnel-like passage, through which came a deathly, sickly odour, the
odour of old earth newly turned. As I went through the passage the smell
grew closer and heavier. At last I pulled open a heavy door which stood
ajar, and found myself in an old, ruined chapel, which had evidently
been used as a graveyard. The roof was broken, and in two places were
steps leading to vaults, but the ground had recently been dug over, and
the earth placed in great wooden boxes, manifestly those which had been
brought by the Slovaks. There was nobody about, and I made search for
any further outlet, but there was none. Then I went over every inch of
the ground, so as not to lose a chance. I went down even into the
vaults, where the dim light struggled, although to do so was a dread to
my very soul. Into two of these I went, but saw nothing except fragments
of old coffins and piles of dust; in the third, however, I made a
discovery.

There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were fifty in all, on a
pile of newly dug earth, lay the Count! He was either dead or asleep, I
could not say which--for the eyes were open and stony, but without the
glassiness of death--and the cheeks had the warmth of life through all
their pallor; the lips were as red as ever. But there was no sign of
movement, no pulse, no breath, no beating of the heart. I bent over him,
and tried to find any sign of life, but in vain. He could not have lain
there long, for the earthy smell would have passed away in a few hours.
By the side of the box was its cover, pierced with holes here and there.
I thought he might have the keys on him, but when I went to search I saw
the dead eyes, and in them, dead though they were, such a look of hate,
though unconscious of me or my presence, that I fled from the place, and
leaving the Count's room by the window, crawled again up the castle
wall. Regaining my room, I threw myself panting upon the bed and tried
to think....

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 June._--To-day is the date of my last letter, and the Count has
taken steps to prove that it was genuine, for again I saw him leave the
castle by the same window, and in my clothes. As he went down the wall,
lizard fashion, I wished I had a gun or some lethal weapon, that I might
destroy him; but I fear that no weapon wrought alone by man's hand would
have any effect on him. I dared not wait to see him return, for I feared
to see those weird sisters. I came back to the library, and read there
till I fell asleep.

I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as grimly as a man can
look as he said:--

"To-morrow, my friend, we must part. You return to your beautiful
England, I to some work which may have such an end that we may never
meet. Your letter home has been despatched; to-morrow I shall not be
here, but all shall be ready for your journey. In the morning come the
Szgany, who have some labours of their own here, and also come some
Slovaks. When they have gone, my carriage shall come for you, and shall
bear you to the Borgo Pass to meet the diligence from Bukovina to
Bistritz. But I am in hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle
Dracula." I suspected him, and determined to test his sincerity.
Sincerity! It seems like a profanation of the word to write it in
connection with such a monster, so asked him point-blank:--

"Why may I not go to-night?"

"Because, dear sir, my coachman and horses are away on a mission."

"But I would walk with pleasure. I want to get away at once." He smiled,
such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile that I knew there was some trick
behind his smoothness. He said:--

"And your baggage?"

"I do not care about it. I can send for it some other time."

The Count stood up, and said, with a sweet courtesy which made me rub my
eyes, it seemed so real:--

"You English have a saying which is close to my heart, for its spirit is
that which rules our _boyars_: 'Welcome the coming; speed the parting
guest.' Come with me, my dear young friend. Not an hour shall you wait
in my house against your will, though sad am I at your going, and that
you so suddenly desire it. Come!" With a stately gravity, he, with the
lamp, preceded me down the stairs and along the hall. Suddenly he
stopped.

"Hark!"

Close at hand came the howling of many wolves. It was almost as if the
sound sprang up at the rising of his hand, just as the music of a great
orchestra seems to leap under the bâton of the conductor. After a pause
of a moment, he proceeded, in his stately way, to the door, drew back
the ponderous bolts, unhooked the heavy chains, and began to draw it
open.

To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked. Suspiciously, I
looked all round, but could see no key of any kind.

As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves without grew louder
and angrier; their red jaws, with champing teeth, and their blunt-clawed
feet as they leaped, came in through the opening door. I knew then that
to struggle at the moment against the Count was useless. With such
allies as these at his command, I could do nothing. But still the door
continued slowly to open, and only the Count's body stood in the gap.
Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my
doom; I was to be given to the wolves, and at my own instigation. There
was a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the Count, and
as a last chance I cried out:--

"Shut the door; I shall wait till morning!" and covered my face with my
hands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment. With one sweep of his
powerful arm, the Count threw the door shut, and the great bolts clanged
and echoed through the hall as they shot back into their places.

In silence we returned to the library, and after a minute or two I went
to my own room. The last I saw of Count Dracula was his kissing his hand
to me; with a red light of triumph in his eyes, and with a smile that
Judas in hell might be proud of.

When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I heard a
whispering at my door. I went to it softly and listened. Unless my ears
deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count:--

"Back, back, to your own place! Your time is not yet come. Wait! Have
patience! To-night is mine. To-morrow night is yours!" There was a low,
sweet ripple of laughter, and in a rage I threw open the door, and saw
without the three terrible women licking their lips. As I appeared they
all joined in a horrible laugh, and ran away.

I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees. It is then so near
the end? To-morrow! to-morrow! Lord, help me, and those to whom I am
dear!

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 June, morning._--These may be the last words I ever write in this
diary. I slept till just before the dawn, and when I woke threw myself
on my knees, for I determined that if Death came he should find me
ready.

At last I felt that subtle change in the air, and knew that the morning
had come. Then came the welcome cock-crow, and I felt that I was safe.
With a glad heart, I opened my door and ran down to the hall. I had seen
that the door was unlocked, and now escape was before me. With hands
that trembled with eagerness, I unhooked the chains and drew back the
massive bolts.

But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I pulled, and pulled, at
the door, and shook it till, massive as it was, it rattled in its
casement. I could see the bolt shot. It had been locked after I left the
Count.

Then a wild desire took me to obtain that key at any risk, and I
determined then and there to scale the wall again and gain the Count's
room. He might kill me, but death now seemed the happier choice of
evils. Without a pause I rushed up to the east window, and scrambled
down the wall, as before, into the Count's room. It was empty, but that
was as I expected. I could not see a key anywhere, but the heap of gold
remained. I went through the door in the corner and down the winding
stair and along the dark passage to the old chapel. I knew now well
enough where to find the monster I sought.

The great box was in the same place, close against the wall, but the lid
was laid on it, not fastened down, but with the nails ready in their
places to be hammered home. I knew I must reach the body for the key, so
I raised the lid, and laid it back against the wall; and then I saw
something which filled my very soul with horror. There lay the Count,
but looking as if his youth had been half renewed, for the white hair
and moustache were changed to dark iron-grey; the cheeks were fuller,
and the white skin seemed ruby-red underneath; the mouth was redder than
ever, for on the lips were gouts of fresh blood, which trickled from the
corners of the mouth and ran over the chin and neck. Even the deep,
burning eyes seemed set amongst swollen flesh, for the lids and pouches
underneath were bloated. It seemed as if the whole awful creature were
simply gorged with blood. He lay like a filthy leech, exhausted with his
repletion. I shuddered as I bent over to touch him, and every sense in
me revolted at the contact; but I had to search, or I was lost. The
coming night might see my own body a banquet in a similar way to those
horrid three. I felt all over the body, but no sign could I find of the
key. Then I stopped and looked at the Count. There was a mocking smile
on the bloated face which seemed to drive me mad. This was the being I
was helping to transfer to London, where, perhaps, for centuries to come
he might, amongst its teeming millions, satiate his lust for blood, and
create a new and ever-widening circle of semi-demons to batten on the
helpless. The very thought drove me mad. A terrible desire came upon me
to rid the world of such a monster. There was no lethal weapon at hand,
but I seized a shovel which the workmen had been using to fill the
cases, and lifting it high, struck, with the edge downward, at the
hateful face. But as I did so the head turned, and the eyes fell full
upon me, with all their blaze of basilisk horror. The sight seemed to
paralyse me, and the shovel turned in my hand and glanced from the face,
merely making a deep gash above the forehead. The shovel fell from my
hand across the box, and as I pulled it away the flange of the blade
caught the edge of the lid which fell over again, and hid the horrid
thing from my sight. The last glimpse I had was of the bloated face,
blood-stained and fixed with a grin of malice which would have held its
own in the nethermost hell.

I thought and thought what should be my next move, but my brain seemed
on fire, and I waited with a despairing feeling growing over me. As I
waited I heard in the distance a gipsy song sung by merry voices coming
closer, and through their song the rolling of heavy wheels and the
cracking of whips; the Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Count had
spoken were coming. With a last look around and at the box which
contained the vile body, I ran from the place and gained the Count's
room, determined to rush out at the moment the door should be opened.
With strained ears, I listened, and heard downstairs the grinding of the
key in the great lock and the falling back of the heavy door. There must
have been some other means of entry, or some one had a key for one of
the locked doors. Then there came the sound of many feet tramping and
dying away in some passage which sent up a clanging echo. I turned to
run down again towards the vault, where I might find the new entrance;
but at the moment there seemed to come a violent puff of wind, and the
door to the winding stair blew to with a shock that set the dust from
the lintels flying. When I ran to push it open, I found that it was
hopelessly fast. I was again a prisoner, and the net of doom was closing
round me more closely.

As I write there is in the passage below a sound of many tramping feet
and the crash of weights being set down heavily, doubtless the boxes,
with their freight of earth. There is a sound of hammering; it is the
box being nailed down. Now I can hear the heavy feet tramping again
along the hall, with many other idle feet coming behind them.

The door is shut, and the chains rattle; there is a grinding of the key
in the lock; I can hear the key withdraw: then another door opens and
shuts; I hear the creaking of lock and bolt.

Hark! in the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavy wheels,
the crack of whips, and the chorus of the Szgany as they pass into the
distance.

I am alone in the castle with those awful women. Faugh! Mina is a woman,
and there is nought in common. They are devils of the Pit!

I shall not remain alone with them; I shall try to scale the castle wall
farther than I have yet attempted. I shall take some of the gold with
me, lest I want it later. I may find a way from this dreadful place.

And then away for home! away to the quickest and nearest train! away
from this cursed spot, from this cursed land, where the devil and his
children still walk with earthly feet!

At least God's mercy is better than that of these monsters, and the
precipice is steep and high. At its foot a man may sleep--as a man.
Good-bye, all! Mina!




CHAPTER V

_Letter from Miss Mina Murray to Miss Lucy Westenra._


"_9 May._

"My dearest Lucy,--

"Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been simply overwhelmed
with work. The life of an assistant schoolmistress is sometimes trying.
I am longing to be with you, and by the sea, where we can talk together
freely and build our castles in the air. I have been working very hard
lately, because I want to keep up with Jonathan's studies, and I have
been practising shorthand very assiduously. When we are married I shall
be able to be useful to Jonathan, and if I can stenograph well enough I
can take down what he wants to say in this way and write it out for
him on the typewriter, at which also I am practising very hard. He
and I sometimes write letters in shorthand, and he is keeping a
stenographic journal of his travels abroad. When I am with you I
shall keep a diary in the same way. I don't mean one of those
two-pages-to-the-week-with-Sunday-squeezed-in-a-corner diaries, but a
sort of journal which I can write in whenever I feel inclined. I do not
suppose there will be much of interest to other people; but it is not
intended for them. I may show it to Jonathan some day if there is in it
anything worth sharing, but it is really an exercise book. I shall try
to do what I see lady journalists do: interviewing and writing
descriptions and trying to remember conversations. I am told that, with
a little practice, one can remember all that goes on or that one hears
said during a day. However, we shall see. I will tell you of my little
plans when we meet. I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan
from Transylvania. He is well, and will be returning in about a week. I
am longing to hear all his news. It must be so nice to see strange
countries. I wonder if we--I mean Jonathan and I--shall ever see them
together. There is the ten o'clock bell ringing. Good-bye.

"Your loving

"MINA.

"Tell me all the news when you write. You have not told me anything for
a long time. I hear rumours, and especially of a tall, handsome,
curly-haired man???"


_Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Murray_.

"_17, Chatham Street_,

"_Wednesday_.

"My dearest Mina,--

"I must say you tax me _very_ unfairly with being a bad correspondent. I
wrote to you _twice_ since we parted, and your last letter was only your
_second_. Besides, I have nothing to tell you. There is really nothing
to interest you. Town is very pleasant just now, and we go a good deal
to picture-galleries and for walks and rides in the park. As to the
tall, curly-haired man, I suppose it was the one who was with me at the
last Pop. Some one has evidently been telling tales. That was Mr.
Holmwood. He often comes to see us, and he and mamma get on very well
together; they have so many things to talk about in common. We met some
time ago a man that would just _do for you_, if you were not already
engaged to Jonathan. He is an excellent _parti_, being handsome, well
off, and of good birth. He is a doctor and really clever. Just fancy! He
is only nine-and-twenty, and he has an immense lunatic asylum all under
his own care. Mr. Holmwood introduced him to me, and he called here to
see us, and often comes now. I think he is one of the most resolute men
I ever saw, and yet the most calm. He seems absolutely imperturbable. I
can fancy what a wonderful power he must have over his patients. He has
a curious habit of looking one straight in the face, as if trying to
read one's thoughts. He tries this on very much with me, but I flatter
myself he has got a tough nut to crack. I know that from my glass. Do
you ever try to read your own face? _I do_, and I can tell you it is not
a bad study, and gives you more trouble than you can well fancy if you
have never tried it. He says that I afford him a curious psychological
study, and I humbly think I do. I do not, as you know, take sufficient
interest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions. Dress is a
bore. That is slang again, but never mind; Arthur says that every day.
There, it is all out. Mina, we have told all our secrets to each other
since we were _children_; we have slept together and eaten together, and
laughed and cried together; and now, though I have spoken, I would like
to speak more. Oh, Mina, couldn't you guess? I love him. I am blushing
as I write, for although I _think_ he loves me, he has not told me so in
words. But oh, Mina, I love him; I love him; I love him! There, that
does me good. I wish I were with you, dear, sitting by the fire
undressing, as we used to sit; and I would try to tell you what I feel.
I do not know how I am writing this even to you. I am afraid to stop,
or I should tear up the letter, and I don't want to stop, for I _do_ so
want to tell you all. Let me hear from you _at once_, and tell me all
that you think about it. Mina, I must stop. Good-night. Bless me in your
prayers; and, Mina, pray for my happiness.

"LUCY.

"P.S.--I need not tell you this is a secret. Good-night again.

"L."

_Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Murray_.

"_24 May_.

"My dearest Mina,--

"Thanks, and thanks, and thanks again for your sweet letter. It was so
nice to be able to tell you and to have your sympathy.

"My dear, it never rains but it pours. How true the old proverbs are.
Here am I, who shall be twenty in September, and yet I never had a
proposal till to-day, not a real proposal, and to-day I have had three.
Just fancy! THREE proposals in one day! Isn't it awful! I feel sorry,
really and truly sorry, for two of the poor fellows. Oh, Mina, I am so
happy that I don't know what to do with myself. And three proposals!
But, for goodness' sake, don't tell any of the girls, or they would be
getting all sorts of extravagant ideas and imagining themselves injured
and slighted if in their very first day at home they did not get six at
least. Some girls are so vain! You and I, Mina dear, who are engaged and
are going to settle down soon soberly into old married women, can
despise vanity. Well, I must tell you about the three, but you must keep
it a secret, dear, from _every one_, except, of course, Jonathan. You
will tell him, because I would, if I were in your place, certainly tell
Arthur. A woman ought to tell her husband everything--don't you think
so, dear?--and I must be fair. Men like women, certainly their wives, to
be quite as fair as they are; and women, I am afraid, are not always
quite as fair as they should be. Well, my dear, number One came just
before lunch. I told you of him, Dr. John Seward, the lunatic-asylum
man, with the strong jaw and the good forehead. He was very cool
outwardly, but was nervous all the same. He had evidently been schooling
himself as to all sorts of little things, and remembered them; but he
almost managed to sit down on his silk hat, which men don't generally do
when they are cool, and then when he wanted to appear at ease he kept
playing with a lancet in a way that made me nearly scream. He spoke to
me, Mina, very straightforwardly. He told me how dear I was to him,
though he had known me so little, and what his life would be with me to
help and cheer him. He was going to tell me how unhappy he would be if I
did not care for him, but when he saw me cry he said that he was a brute
and would not add to my present trouble. Then he broke off and asked if
I could love him in time; and when I shook my head his hands trembled,
and then with some hesitation he asked me if I cared already for any one
else. He put it very nicely, saying that he did not want to wring my
confidence from me, but only to know, because if a woman's heart was
free a man might have hope. And then, Mina, I felt a sort of duty to
tell him that there was some one. I only told him that much, and then he
stood up, and he looked very strong and very grave as he took both my
hands in his and said he hoped I would be happy, and that if I ever
wanted a friend I must count him one of my best. Oh, Mina dear, I can't
help crying: and you must excuse this letter being all blotted. Being
proposed to is all very nice and all that sort of thing, but it isn't at
all a happy thing when you have to see a poor fellow, whom you know
loves you honestly, going away and looking all broken-hearted, and to
know that, no matter what he may say at the moment, you are passing
quite out of his life. My dear, I must stop here at present, I feel so
miserable, though I am so happy.

"_Evening._

"Arthur has just gone, and I feel in better spirits than when I left
off, so I can go on telling you about the day. Well, my dear, number Two
came after lunch. He is such a nice fellow, an American from Texas, and
he looks so young and so fresh that it seems almost impossible that he
has been to so many places and has had such adventures. I sympathise
with poor Desdemona when she had such a dangerous stream poured in her
ear, even by a black man. I suppose that we women are such cowards that
we think a man will save us from fears, and we marry him. I know now
what I would do if I were a man and wanted to make a girl love me. No, I
don't, for there was Mr. Morris telling us his stories, and Arthur never
told any, and yet---- My dear, I am somewhat previous. Mr. Quincey P.
Morris found me alone. It seems that a man always does find a girl
alone. No, he doesn't, for Arthur tried twice to _make_ a chance, and I
helping him all I could; I am not ashamed to say it now. I must tell you
beforehand that Mr. Morris doesn't always speak slang--that is to say,
he never does so to strangers or before them, for he is really well
educated and has exquisite manners--but he found out that it amused me
to hear him talk American slang, and whenever I was present, and there
was no one to be shocked, he said such funny things. I am afraid, my
dear, he has to invent it all, for it fits exactly into whatever else he
has to say. But this is a way slang has. I do not know myself if I shall
ever speak slang; I do not know if Arthur likes it, as I have never
heard him use any as yet. Well, Mr. Morris sat down beside me and looked
as happy and jolly as he could, but I could see all the same that he was
very nervous. He took my hand in his, and said ever so sweetly:--

"'Miss Lucy, I know I ain't good enough to regulate the fixin's of your
little shoes, but I guess if you wait till you find a man that is you
will go join them seven young women with the lamps when you quit. Won't
you just hitch up alongside of me and let us go down the long road
together, driving in double harness?'

"Well, he did look so good-humoured and so jolly that it didn't seem
half so hard to refuse him as it did poor Dr. Seward; so I said, as
lightly as I could, that I did not know anything of hitching, and that I
wasn't broken to harness at all yet. Then he said that he had spoken in
a light manner, and he hoped that if he had made a mistake in doing so
on so grave, so momentous, an occasion for him, I would forgive him. He
really did look serious when he was saying it, and I couldn't help
feeling a bit serious too--I know, Mina, you will think me a horrid
flirt--though I couldn't help feeling a sort of exultation that he was
number two in one day. And then, my dear, before I could say a word he
began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-making, laying his very
heart and soul at my feet. He looked so earnest over it that I shall
never again think that a man must be playful always, and never earnest,
because he is merry at times. I suppose he saw something in my face
which checked him, for he suddenly stopped, and said with a sort of
manly fervour that I could have loved him for if I had been free:--

"'Lucy, you are an honest-hearted girl, I know. I should not be here
speaking to you as I am now if I did not believe you clean grit, right
through to the very depths of your soul. Tell me, like one good fellow
to another, is there any one else that you care for? And if there is
I'll never trouble you a hair's breadth again, but will be, if you will
let me, a very faithful friend.'

"My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so little worthy
of them? Here was I almost making fun of this great-hearted, true
gentleman. I burst into tears--I am afraid, my dear, you will think
this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one--and I really felt very
badly. Why can't they let a girl marry three men, or as many as want
her, and save all this trouble? But this is heresy, and I must not say
it. I am glad to say that, though I was crying, I was able to look into
Mr. Morris's brave eyes, and I told him out straight:--

"'Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told me yet that he
even loves me.' I was right to speak to him so frankly, for quite a
light came into his face, and he put out both his hands and took mine--I
think I put them into his--and said in a hearty way:--

"'That's my brave girl. It's better worth being late for a chance of
winning you than being in time for any other girl in the world. Don't
cry, my dear. If it's for me, I'm a hard nut to crack; and I take it
standing up. If that other fellow doesn't know his happiness, well, he'd
better look for it soon, or he'll have to deal with me. Little girl,
your honesty and pluck have made me a friend, and that's rarer than a
lover; it's more unselfish anyhow. My dear, I'm going to have a pretty
lonely walk between this and Kingdom Come. Won't you give me one kiss?
It'll be something to keep off the darkness now and then. You can, you
know, if you like, for that other good fellow--he must be a good fellow,
my dear, and a fine fellow, or you could not love him--hasn't spoken
yet.' That quite won me, Mina, for it _was_ brave and sweet of him, and
noble, too, to a rival--wasn't it?--and he so sad; so I leant over and
kissed him. He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked down
into my face--I am afraid I was blushing very much--he said:--

"'Little girl, I hold your hand, and you've kissed me, and if these
things don't make us friends nothing ever will. Thank you for your sweet
honesty to me, and good-bye.' He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat,
went straight out of the room without looking back, without a tear or a
quiver or a pause; and I am crying like a baby. Oh, why must a man like
that be made unhappy when there are lots of girls about who would
worship the very ground he trod on? I know I would if I were free--only
I don't want to be free. My dear, this quite upset me, and I feel I
cannot write of happiness just at once, after telling you of it; and I
don't wish to tell of the number three until it can be all happy.

"Ever your loving

"LUCY.

"P.S.--Oh, about number Three--I needn't tell you of number Three, need
I? Besides, it was all so confused; it seemed only a moment from his
coming into the room till both his arms were round me, and he was
kissing me. I am very, very happy, and I don't know what I have done to
deserve it. I must only try in the future to show that I am not
ungrateful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such a
lover, such a husband, and such a friend.

"Good-bye."


_Dr. Seward's Diary._

(Kept in phonograph)

_25 May._--Ebb tide in appetite to-day. Cannot eat, cannot rest, so
diary instead. Since my rebuff of yesterday I have a sort of empty
feeling; nothing in the world seems of sufficient importance to be worth
the doing.... As I knew that the only cure for this sort of thing was
work, I went down amongst the patients. I picked out one who has
afforded me a study of much interest. He is so quaint that I am
determined to understand him as well as I can. To-day I seemed to get
nearer than ever before to the heart of his mystery.

I questioned him more fully than I had ever done, with a view to making
myself master of the facts of his hallucination. In my manner of doing
it there was, I now see, something of cruelty. I seemed to wish to keep
him to the point of his madness--a thing which I avoid with the patients
as I would the mouth of hell.

(_Mem._, under what circumstances would I _not_ avoid the pit of hell?)
_Omnia Romæ venalia sunt._ Hell has its price! _verb. sap._ If there be
anything behind this instinct it will be valuable to trace it afterwards
_accurately_, so I had better commence to do so, therefore--

R. M. Renfield, ætat 59.--Sanguine temperament; great physical strength;
morbidly excitable; periods of gloom, ending in some fixed idea which I
cannot make out. I presume that the sanguine temperament itself and the
disturbing influence end in a mentally-accomplished finish; a possibly
dangerous man, probably dangerous if unselfish. In selfish men caution
is as secure an armour for their foes as for themselves. What I think of
on this point is, when self is the fixed point the centripetal force is
balanced with the centrifugal; when duty, a cause, etc., is the fixed
point, the latter force is paramount, and only accident or a series of
accidents can balance it.


_Letter, Quincey P. Morris to Hon. Arthur Holmwood._

"_25 May._

"My dear Art,--

"We've told yarns by the camp-fire in the prairies; and dressed one
another's wounds after trying a landing at the Marquesas; and drunk
healths on the shore of Titicaca. There are more yarns to be told, and
other wounds to be healed, and another health to be drunk. Won't you let
this be at my camp-fire to-morrow night? I have no hesitation in asking
you, as I know a certain lady is engaged to a certain dinner-party, and
that you are free. There will only be one other, our old pal at the
Korea, Jack Seward. He's coming, too, and we both want to mingle our
weeps over the wine-cup, and to drink a health with all our hearts to
the happiest man in all the wide world, who has won the noblest heart
that God has made and the best worth winning. We promise you a hearty
welcome, and a loving greeting, and a health as true as your own right
hand. We shall both swear to leave you at home if you drink too deep to
a certain pair of eyes. Come!

"Yours, as ever and always,

"QUINCEY P. MORRIS."


_Telegram from Arthur Holmwood to Quincey P. Morris._

"_26 May._

"Count me in every time. I bear messages which will make both your ears
tingle.

"ART."




CHAPTER VI

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


_24 July. Whitby._--Lucy met me at the station, looking sweeter and
lovelier than ever, and we drove up to the house at the Crescent in
which they have rooms. This is a lovely place. The little river, the
Esk, runs through a deep valley, which broadens out as it comes near the
harbour. A great viaduct runs across, with high piers, through which the
view seems somehow further away than it really is. The valley is
beautifully green, and it is so steep that when you are on the high land
on either side you look right across it, unless you are near enough to
see down. The houses of the old town--the side away from us--are all
red-roofed, and seem piled up one over the other anyhow, like the
pictures we see of Nuremberg. Right over the town is the ruin of Whitby
Abbey, which was sacked by the Danes, and which is the scene of part of
"Marmion," where the girl was built up in the wall. It is a most noble
ruin, of immense size, and full of beautiful and romantic bits; there is
a legend that a white lady is seen in one of the windows. Between it and
the town there is another church, the parish one, round which is a big
graveyard, all full of tombstones. This is to my mind the nicest spot in
Whitby, for it lies right over the town, and has a full view of the
harbour and all up the bay to where the headland called Kettleness
stretches out into the sea. It descends so steeply over the harbour that
part of the bank has fallen away, and some of the graves have been
destroyed. In one place part of the stonework of the graves stretches
out over the sandy pathway far below. There are walks, with seats beside
them, through the churchyard; and people go and sit there all day long
looking at the beautiful view and enjoying the breeze. I shall come and
sit here very often myself and work. Indeed, I am writing now, with my
book on my knee, and listening to the talk of three old men who are
sitting beside me. They seem to do nothing all day but sit up here and
talk.

The harbour lies below me, with, on the far side, one long granite wall
stretching out into the sea, with a curve outwards at the end of it, in
the middle of which is a lighthouse. A heavy sea-wall runs along outside
of it. On the near side, the sea-wall makes an elbow crooked inversely,
and its end too has a lighthouse. Between the two piers there is a
narrow opening into the harbour, which then suddenly widens.

It is nice at high water; but when the tide is out it shoals away to
nothing, and there is merely the stream of the Esk, running between
banks of sand, with rocks here and there. Outside the harbour on this
side there rises for about half a mile a great reef, the sharp edge of
which runs straight out from behind the south lighthouse. At the end of
it is a buoy with a bell, which swings in bad weather, and sends in a
mournful sound on the wind. They have a legend here that when a ship is
lost bells are heard out at sea. I must ask the old man about this; he
is coming this way....

He is a funny old man. He must be awfully old, for his face is all
gnarled and twisted like the bark of a tree. He tells me that he is
nearly a hundred, and that he was a sailor in the Greenland fishing
fleet when Waterloo was fought. He is, I am afraid, a very sceptical
person, for when I asked him about the bells at sea and the White Lady
at the abbey he said very brusquely:--

"I wouldn't fash masel' about them, miss. Them things be all wore out.
Mind, I don't say that they never was, but I do say that they wasn't in
my time. They be all very well for comers and trippers, an' the like,
but not for a nice young lady like you. Them feet-folks from York and
Leeds that be always eatin' cured herrin's an' drinkin' tea an' lookin'
out to buy cheap jet would creed aught. I wonder masel' who'd be
bothered tellin' lies to them--even the newspapers, which is full of
fool-talk." I thought he would be a good person to learn interesting
things from, so I asked him if he would mind telling me something about
the whale-fishing in the old days. He was just settling himself to begin
when the clock struck six, whereupon he laboured to get up, and said:--

"I must gang ageeanwards home now, miss. My grand-daughter doesn't like
to be kept waitin' when the tea is ready, for it takes me time to
crammle aboon the grees, for there be a many of 'em; an', miss, I lack
belly-timber sairly by the clock."

He hobbled away, and I could see him hurrying, as well as he could, down
the steps. The steps are a great feature on the place. They lead from
the town up to the church, there are hundreds of them--I do not know how
many--and they wind up in a delicate curve; the slope is so gentle that
a horse could easily walk up and down them. I think they must originally
have had something to do with the abbey. I shall go home too. Lucy went
out visiting with her mother, and as they were only duty calls, I did
not go. They will be home by this.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 August._--I came up here an hour ago with Lucy, and we had a most
interesting talk with my old friend and the two others who always come
and join him. He is evidently the Sir Oracle of them, and I should think
must have been in his time a most dictatorial person. He will not admit
anything, and downfaces everybody. If he can't out-argue them he bullies
them, and then takes their silence for agreement with his views. Lucy
was looking sweetly pretty in her white lawn frock; she has got a
beautiful colour since she has been here. I noticed that the old men did
not lose any time in coming up and sitting near her when we sat down.
She is so sweet with old people; I think they all fell in love with her
on the spot. Even my old man succumbed and did not contradict her, but
gave me double share instead. I got him on the subject of the legends,
and he went off at once into a sort of sermon. I must try to remember it
and put it down:--

"It be all fool-talk, lock, stock, and barrel; that's what it be, an'
nowt else. These bans an' wafts an' boh-ghosts an' barguests an' bogles
an' all anent them is only fit to set bairns an' dizzy women
a-belderin'. They be nowt but air-blebs. They, an' all grims an' signs
an' warnin's, be all invented by parsons an' illsome beuk-bodies an'
railway touters to skeer an' scunner hafflin's, an' to get folks to do
somethin' that they don't other incline to. It makes me ireful to think
o' them. Why, it's them that, not content with printin' lies on paper
an' preachin' them out of pulpits, does want to be cuttin' them on the
tombstones. Look here all around you in what airt ye will; all them
steans, holdin' up their heads as well as they can out of their pride,
is acant--simply tumblin' down with the weight o' the lies wrote on
them, 'Here lies the body' or 'Sacred to the memory' wrote on all of
them, an' yet in nigh half of them there bean't no bodies at all; an'
the memories of them bean't cared a pinch of snuff about, much less
sacred. Lies all of them, nothin' but lies of one kind or another! My
gog, but it'll be a quare scowderment at the Day of Judgment when they
come tumblin' up in their death-sarks, all jouped together an' tryin' to
drag their tombsteans with them to prove how good they was; some of them
trimmlin' and ditherin', with their hands that dozzened an' slippy from
lyin' in the sea that they can't even keep their grup o' them."

I could see from the old fellow's self-satisfied air and the way in
which he looked round for the approval of his cronies that he was
"showing off," so I put in a word to keep him going:--

"Oh, Mr. Swales, you can't be serious. Surely these tombstones are not
all wrong?"

"Yabblins! There may be a poorish few not wrong, savin' where they make
out the people too good; for there be folk that do think a balm-bowl be
like the sea, if only it be their own. The whole thing be only lies. Now
look you here; you come here a stranger, an' you see this kirk-garth." I
nodded, for I thought it better to assent, though I did not quite
understand his dialect. I knew it had something to do with the church.
He went on: "And you consate that all these steans be aboon folk that be
happed here, snod an' snog?" I assented again. "Then that be just where
the lie comes in. Why, there be scores of these lay-beds that be toom as
old Dun's 'bacca-box on Friday night." He nudged one of his companions,
and they all laughed. "And my gog! how could they be otherwise? Look at
that one, the aftest abaft the bier-bank: read it!" I went over and
read:--

"Edward Spencelagh, master mariner, murdered by pirates off the coast of
Andres, April, 1854, æt. 30." When I came back Mr. Swales went on:--

"Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here? Murdered off the coast
of Andres! an' you consated his body lay under! Why, I could name ye a
dozen whose bones lie in the Greenland seas above"--he pointed
northwards--"or where the currents may have drifted them. There be the
steans around ye. Ye can, with your young eyes, read the small-print of
the lies from here. This Braithwaite Lowrey--I knew his father, lost in
the _Lively_ off Greenland in '20; or Andrew Woodhouse, drowned in the
same seas in 1777; or John Paxton, drowned off Cape Farewell a year
later; or old John Rawlings, whose grandfather sailed with me, drowned
in the Gulf of Finland in '50. Do ye think that all these men will have
to make a rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me antherums
aboot it! I tell ye that when they got here they'd be jommlin' an'
jostlin' one another that way that it 'ud be like a fight up on the ice
in the old days, when we'd be at one another from daylight to dark, an'
tryin' to tie up our cuts by the light of the aurora borealis." This was
evidently local pleasantry, for the old man cackled over it, and his
cronies joined in with gusto.

"But," I said, "surely you are not quite correct, for you start on the
assumption that all the poor people, or their spirits, will have to
take their tombstones with them on the Day of Judgment. Do you think
that will be really necessary?"

"Well, what else be they tombstones for? Answer me that, miss!"

"To please their relatives, I suppose."

"To please their relatives, you suppose!" This he said with intense
scorn. "How will it pleasure their relatives to know that lies is wrote
over them, and that everybody in the place knows that they be lies?" He
pointed to a stone at our feet which had been laid down as a slab, on
which the seat was rested, close to the edge of the cliff. "Read the
lies on that thruff-stean," he said. The letters were upside down to me
from where I sat, but Lucy was more opposite to them, so she leant over
and read:--

"Sacred to the memory of George Canon, who died, in the hope of a
glorious resurrection, on July, 29, 1873, falling from the rocks at
Kettleness. This tomb was erected by his sorrowing mother to her dearly
beloved son. 'He was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow.'
Really, Mr. Swales, I don't see anything very funny in that!" She spoke
her comment very gravely and somewhat severely.

"Ye don't see aught funny! Ha! ha! But that's because ye don't gawm the
sorrowin' mother was a hell-cat that hated him because he was
acrewk'd--a regular lamiter he was--an' he hated her so that he
committed suicide in order that she mightn't get an insurance she put on
his life. He blew nigh the top of his head off with an old musket that
they had for scarin' the crows with. 'Twarn't for crows then, for it
brought the clegs and the dowps to him. That's the way he fell off the
rocks. And, as to hopes of a glorious resurrection, I've often heard him
say masel' that he hoped he'd go to hell, for his mother was so pious
that she'd be sure to go to heaven, an' he didn't want to addle where
she was. Now isn't that stean at any rate"--he hammered it with his
stick as he spoke--"a pack of lies? and won't it make Gabriel keckle
when Geordie comes pantin' up the grees with the tombstean balanced on
his hump, and asks it to be took as evidence!"

I did not know what to say, but Lucy turned the conversation as she
said, rising up:--

"Oh, why did you tell us of this? It is my favourite seat, and I cannot
leave it; and now I find I must go on sitting over the grave of a
suicide."

"That won't harm ye, my pretty; an' it may make poor Geordie gladsome to
have so trim a lass sittin' on his lap. That won't hurt ye. Why, I've
sat here off an' on for nigh twenty years past, an' it hasn't done me
no harm. Don't ye fash about them as lies under ye, or that doesn' lie
there either! It'll be time for ye to be getting scart when ye see the
tombsteans all run away with, and the place as bare as a stubble-field.
There's the clock, an' I must gang. My service to ye, ladies!" And off
he hobbled.

Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful before us that we
took hands as we sat; and she told me all over again about Arthur and
their coming marriage. That made me just a little heart-sick, for I
haven't heard from Jonathan for a whole month.

       *       *       *       *       *

_The same day._ I came up here alone, for I am very sad. There was no
letter for me. I hope there cannot be anything the matter with Jonathan.
The clock has just struck nine. I see the lights scattered all over the
town, sometimes in rows where the streets are, and sometimes singly;
they run right up the Esk and die away in the curve of the valley. To my
left the view is cut off by a black line of roof of the old house next
the abbey. The sheep and lambs are bleating in the fields away behind
me, and there is a clatter of a donkey's hoofs up the paved road below.
The band on the pier is playing a harsh waltz in good time, and further
along the quay there is a Salvation Army meeting in a back street.
Neither of the bands hears the other, but up here I hear and see them
both. I wonder where Jonathan is and if he is thinking of me! I wish he
were here.


_Dr. Seward's Diary._

_5 June._--The case of Renfield grows more interesting the more I get to
understand the man. He has certain qualities very largely developed;
selfishness, secrecy, and purpose. I wish I could get at what is the
object of the latter. He seems to have some settled scheme of his own,
but what it is I do not yet know. His redeeming quality is a love of
animals, though, indeed, he has such curious turns in it that I
sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His pets are of odd
sorts. Just now his hobby is catching flies. He has at present such a
quantity that I have had myself to expostulate. To my astonishment, he
did not break out into a fury, as I expected, but took the matter in
simple seriousness. He thought for a moment, and then said: "May I have
three days? I shall clear them away." Of course, I said that would do. I
must watch him.

       *       *       *       *       *

_18 June._--He has turned his mind now to spiders, and has got several
very big fellows in a box. He keeps feeding them with his flies, and
the number of the latter is becoming sensibly diminished, although he
has used half his food in attracting more flies from outside to his
room.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 July._--His spiders are now becoming as great a nuisance as his
flies, and to-day I told him that he must get rid of them. He looked
very sad at this, so I said that he must clear out some of them, at all
events. He cheerfully acquiesced in this, and I gave him the same time
as before for reduction. He disgusted me much while with him, for when a
horrid blow-fly, bloated with some carrion food, buzzed into the room,
he caught it, held it exultantly for a few moments between his finger
and thumb, and, before I knew what he was going to do, put it in his
mouth and ate it. I scolded him for it, but he argued quietly that it
was very good and very wholesome; that it was life, strong life, and
gave life to him. This gave me an idea, or the rudiment of one. I must
watch how he gets rid of his spiders. He has evidently some deep problem
in his mind, for he keeps a little note-book in which he is always
jotting down something. Whole pages of it are filled with masses of
figures, generally single numbers added up in batches, and then the
totals added in batches again, as though he were "focussing" some
account, as the auditors put it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_8 July._--There is a method in his madness, and the rudimentary idea in
my mind is growing. It will be a whole idea soon, and then, oh,
unconscious cerebration! you will have to give the wall to your
conscious brother. I kept away from my friend for a few days, so that I
might notice if there were any change. Things remain as they were except
that he has parted with some of his pets and got a new one. He has
managed to get a sparrow, and has already partially tamed it. His means
of taming is simple, for already the spiders have diminished. Those that
do remain, however, are well fed, for he still brings in the flies by
tempting them with his food.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 July._--We are progressing. My friend has now a whole colony of
sparrows, and his flies and spiders are almost obliterated. When I came
in he ran to me and said he wanted to ask me a great favour--a very,
very great favour; and as he spoke he fawned on me like a dog. I asked
him what it was, and he said, with a sort of rapture in his voice and
bearing:--

"A kitten, a nice little, sleek playful kitten, that I can play with,
and teach, and feed--and feed--and feed!" I was not unprepared for this
request, for I had noticed how his pets went on increasing in size and
vivacity, but I did not care that his pretty family of tame sparrows
should be wiped out in the same manner as the flies and the spiders; so
I said I would see about it, and asked him if he would not rather have a
cat than a kitten. His eagerness betrayed him as he answered:--

"Oh, yes, I would like a cat! I only asked for a kitten lest you should
refuse me a cat. No one would refuse me a kitten, would they?" I shook
my head, and said that at present I feared it would not be possible, but
that I would see about it. His face fell, and I could see a warning of
danger in it, for there was a sudden fierce, sidelong look which meant
killing. The man is an undeveloped homicidal maniac. I shall test him
with his present craving and see how it will work out; then I shall know
more.

       *       *       *       *       *

_10 p. m._--I have visited him again and found him sitting in a corner
brooding. When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me and
implored me to let him have a cat; that his salvation depended upon it.
I was firm, however, and told him that he could not have it, whereupon
he went without a word, and sat down, gnawing his fingers, in the corner
where I had found him. I shall see him in the morning early.

       *       *       *       *       *

_20 July._--Visited Renfield very early, before the attendant went his
rounds. Found him up and humming a tune. He was spreading out his sugar,
which he had saved, in the window, and was manifestly beginning his
fly-catching again; and beginning it cheerfully and with a good grace. I
looked around for his birds, and not seeing them, asked him where they
were. He replied, without turning round, that they had all flown away.
There were a few feathers about the room and on his pillow a drop of
blood. I said nothing, but went and told the keeper to report to me if
there were anything odd about him during the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 a. m._--The attendant has just been to me to say that Renfield has
been very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers. "My belief is,
doctor," he said, "that he has eaten his birds, and that he just took
and ate them raw!"

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 p. m._--I gave Renfield a strong opiate to-night, enough to make
even him sleep, and took away his pocket-book to look at it. The thought
that has been buzzing about my brain lately is complete, and the theory
proved. My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind. I shall have to
invent a new classification for him, and call him a zoöphagous
(life-eating) maniac; what he desires is to absorb as many lives as he
can, and he has laid himself out to achieve it in a cumulative way. He
gave many flies to one spider and many spiders to one bird, and then
wanted a cat to eat the many birds. What would have been his later
steps? It would almost be worth while to complete the experiment. It
might be done if there were only a sufficient cause. Men sneered at
vivisection, and yet look at its results to-day! Why not advance science
in its most difficult and vital aspect--the knowledge of the brain? Had
I even the secret of one such mind--did I hold the key to the fancy of
even one lunatic--I might advance my own branch of science to a pitch
compared with which Burdon-Sanderson's physiology or Ferrier's
brain-knowledge would be as nothing. If only there were a sufficient
cause! I must not think too much of this, or I may be tempted; a good
cause might turn the scale with me, for may not I too be of an
exceptional brain, congenitally?

How well the man reasoned; lunatics always do within their own scope. I
wonder at how many lives he values a man, or if at only one. He has
closed the account most accurately, and to-day begun a new record. How
many of us begin a new record with each day of our lives?

To me it seems only yesterday that my whole life ended with my new hope,
and that truly I began a new record. So it will be until the Great
Recorder sums me up and closes my ledger account with a balance to
profit or loss. Oh, Lucy, Lucy, I cannot be angry with you, nor can I be
angry with my friend whose happiness is yours; but I must only wait on
hopeless and work. Work! work!

If I only could have as strong a cause as my poor mad friend there--a
good, unselfish cause to make me work--that would be indeed happiness.


_Mina Murray's Journal._

_26 July._--I am anxious, and it soothes me to express myself here; it
is like whispering to one's self and listening at the same time. And
there is also something about the shorthand symbols that makes it
different from writing. I am unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan. I
had not heard from Jonathan for some time, and was very concerned; but
yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always so kind, sent me a letter from
him. I had written asking him if he had heard, and he said the enclosed
had just been received. It is only a line dated from Castle Dracula,
and says that he is just starting for home. That is not like Jonathan;
I do not understand it, and it makes me uneasy. Then, too, Lucy,
although she is so well, has lately taken to her old habit of walking in
her sleep. Her mother has spoken to me about it, and we have decided
that I am to lock the door of our room every night. Mrs. Westenra has
got an idea that sleep-walkers always go out on roofs of houses and
along the edges of cliffs and then get suddenly wakened and fall over
with a despairing cry that echoes all over the place. Poor dear, she is
naturally anxious about Lucy, and she tells me that her husband, Lucy's
father, had the same habit; that he would get up in the night and dress
himself and go out, if he were not stopped. Lucy is to be married in the
autumn, and she is already planning out her dresses and how her house is
to be arranged. I sympathise with her, for I do the same, only Jonathan
and I will start in life in a very simple way, and shall have to try to
make both ends meet. Mr. Holmwood--he is the Hon. Arthur Holmwood, only
son of Lord Godalming--is coming up here very shortly--as soon as he can
leave town, for his father is not very well, and I think dear Lucy is
counting the moments till he comes. She wants to take him up to the seat
on the churchyard cliff and show him the beauty of Whitby. I daresay it
is the waiting which disturbs her; she will be all right when he
arrives.

       *       *       *       *       *

_27 July._--No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite uneasy about him,
though why I should I do not know; but I do wish that he would write, if
it were only a single line. Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I
am awakened by her moving about the room. Fortunately, the weather is so
hot that she cannot get cold; but still the anxiety and the perpetually
being wakened is beginning to tell on me, and I am getting nervous and
wakeful myself. Thank God, Lucy's health keeps up. Mr. Holmwood has been
suddenly called to Ring to see his father, who has been taken seriously
ill. Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him, but it does not touch
her looks; she is a trifle stouter, and her cheeks are a lovely
rose-pink. She has lost that anæmic look which she had. I pray it will
all last.

       *       *       *       *       *

_3 August._--Another week gone, and no news from Jonathan, not even to
Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard. Oh, I do hope he is not ill. He
surely would have written. I look at that last letter of his, but
somehow it does not satisfy me. It does not read like him, and yet it is
his writing. There is no mistake of that. Lucy has not walked much in
her sleep the last week, but there is an odd concentration about her
which I do not understand; even in her sleep she seems to be watching
me. She tries the door, and finding it locked, goes about the room
searching for the key.

_6 August._--Another three days, and no news. This suspense is getting
dreadful. If I only knew where to write to or where to go to, I should
feel easier; but no one has heard a word of Jonathan since that last
letter. I must only pray to God for patience. Lucy is more excitable
than ever, but is otherwise well. Last night was very threatening, and
the fishermen say that we are in for a storm. I must try to watch it and
learn the weather signs. To-day is a grey day, and the sun as I write is
hidden in thick clouds, high over Kettleness. Everything is grey--except
the green grass, which seems like emerald amongst it; grey earthy rock;
grey clouds, tinged with the sunburst at the far edge, hang over the
grey sea, into which the sand-points stretch like grey fingers. The sea
is tumbling in over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar,
muffled in the sea-mists drifting inland. The horizon is lost in a grey
mist. All is vastness; the clouds are piled up like giant rocks, and
there is a "brool" over the sea that sounds like some presage of doom.
Dark figures are on the beach here and there, sometimes half shrouded in
the mist, and seem "men like trees walking." The fishing-boats are
racing for home, and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweep into
the harbour, bending to the scuppers. Here comes old Mr. Swales. He is
making straight for me, and I can see, by the way he lifts his hat, that
he wants to talk....

I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old man. When he sat
down beside me, he said in a very gentle way:--

"I want to say something to you, miss." I could see he was not at ease,
so I took his poor old wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak
fully; so he said, leaving his hand in mine:--

"I'm afraid, my deary, that I must have shocked you by all the wicked
things I've been sayin' about the dead, and such like, for weeks past;
but I didn't mean them, and I want ye to remember that when I'm gone. We
aud folks that be daffled, and with one foot abaft the krok-hooal, don't
altogether like to think of it, and we don't want to feel scart of it;
an' that's why I've took to makin' light of it, so that I'd cheer up my
own heart a bit. But, Lord love ye, miss, I ain't afraid of dyin', not a
bit; only I don't want to die if I can help it. My time must be nigh at
hand now, for I be aud, and a hundred years is too much for any man to
expect; and I'm so nigh it that the Aud Man is already whettin' his
scythe. Ye see, I can't get out o' the habit of caffin' about it all at
once; the chafts will wag as they be used to. Some day soon the Angel of
Death will sound his trumpet for me. But don't ye dooal an' greet, my
deary!"--for he saw that I was crying--"if he should come this very
night I'd not refuse to answer his call. For life be, after all, only a
waitin' for somethin' else than what we're doin'; and death be all that
we can rightly depend on. But I'm content, for it's comin' to me, my
deary, and comin' quick. It may be comin' while we be lookin' and
wonderin'. Maybe it's in that wind out over the sea that's bringin' with
it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! look!" he
cried suddenly. "There's something in that wind and in the hoast beyont
that sounds, and looks, and tastes, and smells like death. It's in the
air; I feel it comin'. Lord, make me answer cheerful when my call
comes!" He held up his arms devoutly, and raised his hat. His mouth
moved as though he were praying. After a few minutes' silence, he got
up, shook hands with me, and blessed me, and said good-bye, and hobbled
off. It all touched me, and upset me very much.

I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his spy-glass under his
arm. He stopped to talk with me, as he always does, but all the time
kept looking at a strange ship.

"I can't make her out," he said; "she's a Russian, by the look of her;
but she's knocking about in the queerest way. She doesn't know her mind
a bit; she seems to see the storm coming, but can't decide whether to
run up north in the open, or to put in here. Look there again! She is
steered mighty strangely, for she doesn't mind the hand on the wheel;
changes about with every puff of wind. We'll hear more of her before
this time to-morrow."




CHAPTER VII

CUTTING FROM "THE DAILYGRAPH," 8 AUGUST


(_Pasted in Mina Murray's Journal._)

From a Correspondent.

_Whitby_.

One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just been
experienced here, with results both strange and unique. The weather had
been somewhat sultry, but not to any degree uncommon in the month of
August. Saturday evening was as fine as was ever known, and the great
body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to Mulgrave Woods,
Robin Hood's Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes, and the various trips in
the neighbourhood of Whitby. The steamers _Emma_ and _Scarborough_ made
trips up and down the coast, and there was an unusual amount of
"tripping" both to and from Whitby. The day was unusually fine till the
afternoon, when some of the gossips who frequent the East Cliff
churchyard, and from that commanding eminence watch the wide sweep of
sea visible to the north and east, called attention to a sudden show of
"mares'-tails" high in the sky to the north-west. The wind was then
blowing from the south-west in the mild degree which in barometrical
language is ranked "No. 2: light breeze." The coastguard on duty at once
made report, and one old fisherman, who for more than half a century has
kept watch on weather signs from the East Cliff, foretold in an emphatic
manner the coming of a sudden storm. The approach of sunset was so very
beautiful, so grand in its masses of splendidly-coloured clouds, that
there was quite an assemblage on the walk along the cliff in the old
churchyard to enjoy the beauty. Before the sun dipped below the black
mass of Kettleness, standing boldly athwart the western sky, its
downward way was marked by myriad clouds of every sunset-colour--flame,
purple, pink, green, violet, and all the tints of gold; with here and
there masses not large, but of seemingly absolute blackness, in all
sorts of shapes, as well outlined as colossal silhouettes. The
experience was not lost on the painters, and doubtless some of the
sketches of the "Prelude to the Great Storm" will grace the R. A. and R.
I. walls in May next. More than one captain made up his mind then and
there that his "cobble" or his "mule," as they term the different
classes of boats, would remain in the harbour till the storm had passed.
The wind fell away entirely during the evening, and at midnight there
was a dead calm, a sultry heat, and that prevailing intensity which, on
the approach of thunder, affects persons of a sensitive nature. There
were but few lights in sight at sea, for even the coasting steamers,
which usually "hug" the shore so closely, kept well to seaward, and but
few fishing-boats were in sight. The only sail noticeable was a foreign
schooner with all sails set, which was seemingly going westwards. The
foolhardiness or ignorance of her officers was a prolific theme for
comment whilst she remained in sight, and efforts were made to signal
her to reduce sail in face of her danger. Before the night shut down she
was seen with sails idly flapping as she gently rolled on the undulating
swell of the sea,

    "As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean."

Shortly before ten o'clock the stillness of the air grew quite
oppressive, and the silence was so marked that the bleating of a sheep
inland or the barking of a dog in the town was distinctly heard, and the
band on the pier, with its lively French air, was like a discord in the
great harmony of nature's silence. A little after midnight came a
strange sound from over the sea, and high overhead the air began to
carry a strange, faint, hollow booming.

Then without warning the tempest broke. With a rapidity which, at the
time, seemed incredible, and even afterwards is impossible to realize,
the whole aspect of nature at once became convulsed. The waves rose in
growing fury, each overtopping its fellow, till in a very few minutes
the lately glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster.
White-crested waves beat madly on the level sands and rushed up the
shelving cliffs; others broke over the piers, and with their spume swept
the lanthorns of the lighthouses which rise from the end of either pier
of Whitby Harbour. The wind roared like thunder, and blew with such
force that it was with difficulty that even strong men kept their feet,
or clung with grim clasp to the iron stanchions. It was found necessary
to clear the entire piers from the mass of onlookers, or else the
fatalities of the night would have been increased manifold. To add to
the difficulties and dangers of the time, masses of sea-fog came
drifting inland--white, wet clouds, which swept by in ghostly fashion,
so dank and damp and cold that it needed but little effort of
imagination to think that the spirits of those lost at sea were
touching their living brethren with the clammy hands of death, and many
a one shuddered as the wreaths of sea-mist swept by. At times the mist
cleared, and the sea for some distance could be seen in the glare of the
lightning, which now came thick and fast, followed by such sudden peals
of thunder that the whole sky overhead seemed trembling under the shock
of the footsteps of the storm.

Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable grandeur and of
absorbing interest--the sea, running mountains high, threw skywards with
each wave mighty masses of white foam, which the tempest seemed to
snatch at and whirl away into space; here and there a fishing-boat, with
a rag of sail, running madly for shelter before the blast; now and again
the white wings of a storm-tossed sea-bird. On the summit of the East
Cliff the new searchlight was ready for experiment, but had not yet been
tried. The officers in charge of it got it into working order, and in
the pauses of the inrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea.
Once or twice its service was most effective, as when a fishing-boat,
with gunwale under water, rushed into the harbour, able, by the guidance
of the sheltering light, to avoid the danger of dashing against the
piers. As each boat achieved the safety of the port there was a shout of
joy from the mass of people on shore, a shout which for a moment seemed
to cleave the gale and was then swept away in its rush.

Before long the searchlight discovered some distance away a schooner
with all sails set, apparently the same vessel which had been noticed
earlier in the evening. The wind had by this time backed to the east,
and there was a shudder amongst the watchers on the cliff as they
realized the terrible danger in which she now was. Between her and the
port lay the great flat reef on which so many good ships have from time
to time suffered, and, with the wind blowing from its present quarter,
it would be quite impossible that she should fetch the entrance of the
harbour. It was now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves were so
great that in their troughs the shallows of the shore were almost
visible, and the schooner, with all sails set, was rushing with such
speed that, in the words of one old salt, "she must fetch up somewhere,
if it was only in hell." Then came another rush of sea-fog, greater than
any hitherto--a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on all things
like a grey pall, and left available to men only the organ of hearing,
for the roar of the tempest, and the crash of the thunder, and the
booming of the mighty billows came through the damp oblivion even louder
than before. The rays of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour
mouth across the East Pier, where the shock was expected, and men waited
breathless. The wind suddenly shifted to the north-east, and the remnant
of the sea-fog melted in the blast; and then, _mirabile dictu_, between
the piers, leaping from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed,
swept the strange schooner before the blast, with all sail set, and
gained the safety of the harbour. The searchlight followed her, and a
shudder ran through all who saw her, for lashed to the helm was a
corpse, with drooping head, which swung horribly to and fro at each
motion of the ship. No other form could be seen on deck at all. A great
awe came on all as they realised that the ship, as if by a miracle, had
found the harbour, unsteered save by the hand of a dead man! However,
all took place more quickly than it takes to write these words. The
schooner paused not, but rushing across the harbour, pitched herself on
that accumulation of sand and gravel washed by many tides and many
storms into the south-east corner of the pier jutting under the East
Cliff, known locally as Tate Hill Pier.

There was of course a considerable concussion as the vessel drove up on
the sand heap. Every spar, rope, and stay was strained, and some of the
"top-hammer" came crashing down. But, strangest of all, the very instant
the shore was touched, an immense dog sprang up on deck from below, as
if shot up by the concussion, and running forward, jumped from the bow
on the sand. Making straight for the steep cliff, where the churchyard
hangs over the laneway to the East Pier so steeply that some of the flat
tombstones--"thruff-steans" or "through-stones," as they call them in
the Whitby vernacular--actually project over where the sustaining cliff
has fallen away, it disappeared in the darkness, which seemed
intensified just beyond the focus of the searchlight.

It so happened that there was no one at the moment on Tate Hill Pier, as
all those whose houses are in close proximity were either in bed or were
out on the heights above. Thus the coastguard on duty on the eastern
side of the harbour, who at once ran down to the little pier, was the
first to climb on board. The men working the searchlight, after scouring
the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything, then turned the
light on the derelict and kept it there. The coastguard ran aft, and
when he came beside the wheel, bent over to examine it, and recoiled at
once as though under some sudden emotion. This seemed to pique general
curiosity, and quite a number of people began to run. It is a good way
round from the West Cliff by the Drawbridge to Tate Hill Pier, but your
correspondent is a fairly good runner, and came well ahead of the crowd.
When I arrived, however, I found already assembled on the pier a crowd,
whom the coastguard and police refused to allow to come on board. By the
courtesy of the chief boatman, I was, as your correspondent, permitted
to climb on deck, and was one of a small group who saw the dead seaman
whilst actually lashed to the wheel.

It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or even awed, for
not often can such a sight have been seen. The man was simply fastened
by his hands, tied one over the other, to a spoke of the wheel. Between
the inner hand and the wood was a crucifix, the set of beads on which it
was fastened being around both wrists and wheel, and all kept fast by
the binding cords. The poor fellow may have been seated at one time, but
the flapping and buffeting of the sails had worked through the rudder of
the wheel and dragged him to and fro, so that the cords with which he
was tied had cut the flesh to the bone. Accurate note was made of the
state of things, and a doctor--Surgeon J. M. Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot
Place--who came immediately after me, declared, after making
examination, that the man must have been dead for quite two days. In his
pocket was a bottle, carefully corked, empty save for a little roll of
paper, which proved to be the addendum to the log. The coastguard said
the man must have tied up his own hands, fastening the knots with his
teeth. The fact that a coastguard was the first on board may save some
complications, later on, in the Admiralty Court; for coastguards cannot
claim the salvage which is the right of the first civilian entering on a
derelict. Already, however, the legal tongues are wagging, and one young
law student is loudly asserting that the rights of the owner are already
completely sacrificed, his property being held in contravention of the
statutes of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not proof, of
delegated possession, is held in a _dead hand_. It is needless to say
that the dead steersman has been reverently removed from the place where
he held his honourable watch and ward till death--a steadfastness as
noble as that of the young Casabianca--and placed in the mortuary to
await inquest.

Already the sudden storm is passing, and its fierceness is abating;
crowds are scattering homeward, and the sky is beginning to redden over
the Yorkshire wolds. I shall send, in time for your next issue, further
details of the derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into
harbour in the storm.

_Whitby_

_9 August._--The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in the
storm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself. It
turns out that the schooner is a Russian from Varna, and is called the
_Demeter_. She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand, with only a
small amount of cargo--a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould.
This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S. F. Billington, of
7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard and formally took
possession of the goods consigned to him. The Russian consul, too,
acting for the charter-party, took formal possession of the ship, and
paid all harbour dues, etc. Nothing is talked about here to-day except
the strange coincidence; the officials of the Board of Trade have been
most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made with
existing regulations. As the matter is to be a "nine days' wonder," they
are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of after
complaint. A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog which
landed when the ship struck, and more than a few of the members of the
S. P. C. A., which is very strong in Whitby, have tried to befriend the
animal. To the general disappointment, however, it was not to be found;
it seems to have disappeared entirely from the town. It may be that it
was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where it is still
hiding in terror. There are some who look with dread on such a
possibility, lest later on it should in itself become a danger, for it
is evidently a fierce brute. Early this morning a large dog, a half-bred
mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier, was found
dead in the roadway opposite to its master's yard. It had been fighting,
and manifestly had had a savage opponent, for its throat was torn away,
and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Later._--By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector, I have been
permitted to look over the log-book of the _Demeter_, which was in order
up to within three days, but contained nothing of special interest
except as to facts of missing men. The greatest interest, however, is
with regard to the paper found in the bottle, which was to-day produced
at the inquest; and a more strange narrative than the two between them
unfold it has not been my lot to come across. As there is no motive for
concealment, I am permitted to use them, and accordingly send you a
rescript, simply omitting technical details of seamanship and
supercargo. It almost seems as though the captain had been seized with
some kind of mania before he had got well into blue water, and that
this had developed persistently throughout the voyage. Of course my
statement must be taken _cum grano_, since I am writing from the
dictation of a clerk of the Russian consul, who kindly translated for
me, time being short.

                         LOG OF THE "DEMETER."


_Varna to Whitby._

_Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I shall keep
accurate note henceforth till we land._

       *       *       *       *       *

On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes of earth.
At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew, five hands ... two mates,
cook, and myself (captain).

       *       *       *       *       *

On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus. Boarded by Turkish Customs
officers. Backsheesh. All correct. Under way at 4 p. m.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 12 July through Dardanelles. More Customs officers and flagboat of
guarding squadron. Backsheesh again. Work of officers thorough, but
quick. Want us off soon. At dark passed into Archipelago.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 13 July passed Cape Matapan. Crew dissatisfied about something.
Seemed scared, but would not speak out.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 14 July was somewhat anxious about crew. Men all steady fellows, who
sailed with me before. Mate could not make out what was wrong; they only
told him there was _something_, and crossed themselves. Mate lost temper
with one of them that day and struck him. Expected fierce quarrel, but
all was quiet.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 16 July mate reported in the morning that one of crew, Petrofsky, was
missing. Could not account for it. Took larboard watch eight bells last
night; was relieved by Abramoff, but did not go to bunk. Men more
downcast than ever. All said they expected something of the kind, but
would not say more than there was _something_ aboard. Mate getting very
impatient with them; feared some trouble ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

On 17 July, yesterday, one of the men, Olgaren, came to my cabin, and in
an awestruck way confided to me that he thought there was a strange man
aboard the ship. He said that in his watch he had been sheltering
behind the deck-house, as there was a rain-storm, when he saw a tall,
thin man, who was not like any of the crew, come up the companion-way,
and go along the deck forward, and disappear. He followed cautiously,
but when he got to bows found no one, and the hatchways were all closed.
He was in a panic of superstitious fear, and I am afraid the panic may
spread. To allay it, I shall to-day search entire ship carefully from
stem to stern.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later in the day I got together the whole crew, and told them, as they
evidently thought there was some one in the ship, we would search from
stem to stern. First mate angry; said it was folly, and to yield to such
foolish ideas would demoralise the men; said he would engage to keep
them out of trouble with a handspike. I let him take the helm, while the
rest began thorough search, all keeping abreast, with lanterns: we left
no corner unsearched. As there were only the big wooden boxes, there
were no odd corners where a man could hide. Men much relieved when
search over, and went back to work cheerfully. First mate scowled, but
said nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

_22 July_.--Rough weather last three days, and all hands busy with
sails--no time to be frightened. Men seem to have forgotten their dread.
Mate cheerful again, and all on good terms. Praised men for work in bad
weather. Passed Gibralter and out through Straits. All well.

       *       *       *       *       *

_24 July_.--There seems some doom over this ship. Already a hand short,
and entering on the Bay of Biscay with wild weather ahead, and yet last
night another man lost--disappeared. Like the first, he came off his
watch and was not seen again. Men all in a panic of fear; sent a round
robin, asking to have double watch, as they fear to be alone. Mate
angry. Fear there will be some trouble, as either he or the men will do
some violence.

       *       *       *       *       *

_28 July_.--Four days in hell, knocking about in a sort of maelstrom,
and the wind a tempest. No sleep for any one. Men all worn out. Hardly
know how to set a watch, since no one fit to go on. Second mate
volunteered to steer and watch, and let men snatch a few hours' sleep.
Wind abating; seas still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is
steadier.

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 July_.--Another tragedy. Had single watch to-night, as crew too
tired to double. When morning watch came on deck could find no one
except steersman. Raised outcry, and all came on deck. Thorough search,
but no one found. Are now without second mate, and crew in a panic. Mate
and I agreed to go armed henceforth and wait for any sign of cause.

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 July_.--Last night. Rejoiced we are nearing England. Weather fine,
all sails set. Retired worn out; slept soundly; awaked by mate telling
me that both man of watch and steersman missing. Only self and mate and
two hands left to work ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 August_.--Two days of fog, and not a sail sighted. Had hoped when in
the English Channel to be able to signal for help or get in somewhere.
Not having power to work sails, have to run before wind. Dare not lower,
as could not raise them again. We seem to be drifting to some terrible
doom. Mate now more demoralised than either of men. His stronger nature
seems to have worked inwardly against himself. Men are beyond fear,
working stolidly and patiently, with minds made up to worst. They are
Russian, he Roumanian.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 August, midnight_.--Woke up from few minutes' sleep by hearing a cry,
seemingly outside my port. Could see nothing in fog. Rushed on deck, and
ran against mate. Tells me heard cry and ran, but no sign of man on
watch. One more gone. Lord, help us! Mate says we must be past Straits
of Dover, as in a moment of fog lifting he saw North Foreland, just as
he heard the man cry out. If so we are now off in the North Sea, and
only God can guide us in the fog, which seems to move with us; and God
seems to have deserted us.

       *       *       *       *       *

_3 August_.--At midnight I went to relieve the man at the wheel, and
when I got to it found no one there. The wind was steady, and as we ran
before it there was no yawing. I dared not leave it, so shouted for the
mate. After a few seconds he rushed up on deck in his flannels. He
looked wild-eyed and haggard, and I greatly fear his reason has given
way. He came close to me and whispered hoarsely, with his mouth to my
ear, as though fearing the very air might hear: "_It_ is here; I know
it, now. On the watch last night I saw It, like a man, tall and thin,
and ghastly pale. It was in the bows, and looking out. I crept behind
It, and gave It my knife; but the knife went through It, empty as the
air." And as he spoke he took his knife and drove it savagely into
space. Then he went on: "But It is here, and I'll find It. It is in the
hold, perhaps in one of those boxes. I'll unscrew them one by one and
see. You work the helm." And, with a warning look and his finger on his
lip, he went below. There was springing up a choppy wind, and I could
not leave the helm. I saw him come out on deck again with a tool-chest
and a lantern, and go down the forward hatchway. He is mad, stark,
raving mad, and it's no use my trying to stop him. He can't hurt those
big boxes: they are invoiced as "clay," and to pull them about is as
harmless a thing as he can do. So here I stay, and mind the helm, and
write these notes. I can only trust in God and wait till the fog clears.
Then, if I can't steer to any harbour with the wind that is, I shall cut
down sails and lie by, and signal for help....

       *       *       *       *       *

It is nearly all over now. Just as I was beginning to hope that the mate
would come out calmer--for I heard him knocking away at something in the
hold, and work is good for him--there came up the hatchway a sudden,
startled scream, which made my blood run cold, and up on the deck he
came as if shot from a gun--a raging madman, with his eyes rolling and
his face convulsed with fear. "Save me! save me!" he cried, and then
looked round on the blanket of fog. His horror turned to despair, and in
a steady voice he said: "You had better come too, captain, before it is
too late. _He_ is there. I know the secret now. The sea will save me
from Him, and it is all that is left!" Before I could say a word, or
move forward to seize him, he sprang on the bulwark and deliberately
threw himself into the sea. I suppose I know the secret too, now. It was
this madman who had got rid of the men one by one, and now he has
followed them himself. God help me! How am I to account for all these
horrors when I get to port? _When_ I get to port! Will that ever be?

       *       *       *       *       *

_4 August._--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce. I know there is
sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know not. I dared not go
below, I dared not leave the helm; so here all night I stayed, and in
the dimness of the night I saw It--Him! God forgive me, but the mate was
right to jump overboard. It was better to die like a man; to die like a
sailor in blue water no man can object. But I am captain, and I must not
leave my ship. But I shall baffle this fiend or monster, for I shall tie
my hands to the wheel when my strength begins to fail, and along with
them I shall tie that which He--It!--dare not touch; and then, come good
wind or foul, I shall save my soul, and my honour as a captain. I am
growing weaker, and the night is coming on. If He can look me in the
face again, I may not have time to act.... If we are wrecked, mayhap
this bottle may be found, and those who find it may understand; if not,
... well, then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust. God
and the Blessed Virgin and the saints help a poor ignorant soul trying
to do his duty....

       *       *       *       *       *

Of course the verdict was an open one. There is no evidence to adduce;
and whether or not the man himself committed the murders there is now
none to say. The folk here hold almost universally that the captain is
simply a hero, and he is to be given a public funeral. Already it is
arranged that his body is to be taken with a train of boats up the Esk
for a piece and then brought back to Tate Hill Pier and up the abbey
steps; for he is to be buried in the churchyard on the cliff. The owners
of more than a hundred boats have already given in their names as
wishing to follow him to the grave.

No trace has ever been found of the great dog; at which there is much
mourning, for, with public opinion in its present state, he would, I
believe, be adopted by the town. To-morrow will see the funeral; and so
will end this one more "mystery of the sea."


_Mina Murray's Journal._

_8 August._--Lucy was very restless all night, and I, too, could not
sleep. The storm was fearful, and as it boomed loudly among the
chimney-pots, it made me shudder. When a sharp puff came it seemed to be
like a distant gun. Strangely enough, Lucy did not wake; but she got up
twice and dressed herself. Fortunately, each time I awoke in time and
managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back to bed. It
is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for as soon as her will is
thwarted in any physical way, her intention, if there be any,
disappears, and she yields herself almost exactly to the routine of her
life.

Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see
if anything had happened in the night. There were very few people about,
and though the sun was bright, and the air clear and fresh, the big,
grim-looking waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that
topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the narrow mouth
of the harbour--like a bullying man going through a crowd. Somehow I
felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night, but on land. But,
oh, is he on land or sea? Where is he, and how? I am getting fearfully
anxious about him. If I only knew what to do, and could do anything!

       *       *       *       *       *

_10 August._--The funeral of the poor sea-captain to-day was most
touching. Every boat in the harbour seemed to be there, and the coffin
was carried by captains all the way from Tate Hill Pier up to the
churchyard. Lucy came with me, and we went early to our old seat, whilst
the cortège of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and came down
again. We had a lovely view, and saw the procession nearly all the way.
The poor fellow was laid to rest quite near our seat so that we stood on
it when the time came and saw everything. Poor Lucy seemed much upset.
She was restless and uneasy all the time, and I cannot but think that
her dreaming at night is telling on her. She is quite odd in one thing:
she will not admit to me that there is any cause for restlessness; or if
there be, she does not understand it herself. There is an additional
cause in that poor old Mr. Swales was found dead this morning on our
seat, his neck being broken. He had evidently, as the doctor said,
fallen back in the seat in some sort of fright, for there was a look of
fear and horror on his face that the men said made them shudder. Poor
dear old man! Perhaps he had seen Death with his dying eyes! Lucy is so
sweet and sensitive that she feels influences more acutely than other
people do. Just now she was quite upset by a little thing which I did
not much heed, though I am myself very fond of animals. One of the men
who came up here often to look for the boats was followed by his dog.
The dog is always with him. They are both quiet persons, and I never saw
the man angry, nor heard the dog bark. During the service the dog would
not come to its master, who was on the seat with us, but kept a few
yards off, barking and howling. Its master spoke to it gently, and then
harshly, and then angrily; but it would neither come nor cease to make a
noise. It was in a sort of fury, with its eyes savage, and all its hairs
bristling out like a cat's tail when puss is on the war-path. Finally
the man, too, got angry, and jumped down and kicked the dog, and then
took it by the scruff of the neck and half dragged and half threw it on
the tombstone on which the seat is fixed. The moment it touched the
stone the poor thing became quiet and fell all into a tremble. It did
not try to get away, but crouched down, quivering and cowering, and was
in such a pitiable state of terror that I tried, though without effect,
to comfort it. Lucy was full of pity, too, but she did not attempt to
touch the dog, but looked at it in an agonised sort of way. I greatly
fear that she is of too super-sensitive a nature to go through the world
without trouble. She will be dreaming of this to-night, I am sure. The
whole agglomeration of things--the ship steered into port by a dead
man; his attitude, tied to the wheel with a crucifix and beads; the
touching funeral; the dog, now furious and now in terror--will all
afford material for her dreams.

I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out physically, so I
shall take her for a long walk by the cliffs to Robin Hood's Bay and
back. She ought not to have much inclination for sleep-walking then.




CHAPTER VIII

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


_Same day, 11 o'clock p. m._--Oh, but I am tired! If it were not that I
had made my diary a duty I should not open it to-night. We had a lovely
walk. Lucy, after a while, was in gay spirits, owing, I think, to some
dear cows who came nosing towards us in a field close to the light